# Articles management

Managing articles effectively is key to maximizing the value of your knowledge
resources, whether working on a research project, studying for an exam, or
building a knowledge database for your business. Knowledge allows you to fully
manage your articles, from creation to removal, through sharing and structure.

You can find most tools to manage articles by clicking the vertical ellipsis
button (**⋮**) at the right side of the top bar. From there, you can move,
lock, delete, or duplicate an article.

![Menu with tools for the management of
articles](../../../_images/toolbox.png)

## Creation, sharing, and removal of articles

### Creation

To create articles, click the **\+ New** button on the right side of the top
bar or the **+** button next to a category or another article.

<div class="alert alert-info">
<p class="alert-title">
Tip</p><p>Create private articles quickly with the Alt/Option + C keyboard shortcut.</p>
</div>

### Sharing

You can share articles with internal or external users. To do so, open the
share menu by clicking **Share** in the top-right menu of articles.

#### Invite users

To share articles with specific users (internal or external, such as a partner
or a customer), click **Invite**. This opens a pop-up window in which you can
choose the **Permission** (i.e, access rights) and enter the **Recipients** ’
name or email.

You can also restrict a specific user from accessing the article by selecting
**No access** permission.

![pop-up window to invite users to access a Knowledge
article](../../../_images/invite.png)

#### Share online

To share articles **online** , activate the **Share to web** button. Doing so
generates a URL link anyone can use to view the article.

Additionally, the share menu displays the default permission for internal
members along with all the users who have been granted specific permission.

![Sharing menu with URL for online sharing and the list of
members.](../../../_images/share-menu.png)

### Removal

To remove an article, you can either **delete** it or **archive** it.

To delete an article, open it and click the vertical ellipsis button (⋮) ‣
Delete. The article is moved to the trash for 30 days before being permanently
deleted. To restore it, click **Open the Trash** , select the article, and
click **Restore**.

To archive articles, click **Search** , select the article(s), and click
Action ‣ Archive ‣ Archive. Archived articles are hidden from the search menu.
To retrieve an archived article, add a custom filter to display them (Search ‣
Filters ‣ Add Custom Filter, and set **Active** as **is No**). Then, select
the article(s) and go to Action ‣ Unarchive.

## Structure of articles

Articles are organized into a hierarchical structure wherein the article on
top is a parent article, and those underneath are called nested articles. This
structure allows the grouping of related articles.

To establish this hierarchy, create new articles by clicking the **+** button
next to the parent-to-be article, or move existing articles by either dragging
and dropping them under the parent-to-be or by clicking the vertical ellipsis
button (**⋮**), clicking **Move To** on the toolbox and selecting the article
to use as a parent.

### Categories

Additionally, articles are divided into four categories that can be found on
the left sidebar. These categories give articles default **access rights**.

  * **Favorites** : You can set any article you can access as a favorite. To do so, click the star-shaped icon (**★**) in the top-right menu of articles. Marking articles as **favorites** is user-specific and does not affect other users.

  * **Workspace** : Articles displayed in that category are available to all internal users. These users have the right to read, modify or share these articles.

  * **Shared** : Articles displayed in that category are those you shared with internal users, external users, or shared with you.

  * **Private** : Articles displayed in that category are only available to you.

![Categories displayed in the left sidebar of Konvergo ERP
Knowledge](../../../_images/left-sidebar-cat.png)

