# TaxCloud integration

Warning

The Odoo TaxCloud integration has begun its decommissioning, starting in Odoo
17. New installations are prohibited in Odoo 17. In Odoo 18, the TaxCloud
module(s) will **not** exist at all. Odoo recommends the use of the Avatax
platform, instead.

See also

[AvaTax integration](avatax.html)

TaxCloud calculates the sales tax rate in real time for every state, city, and
special jurisdiction in the United States. It keeps track of which products
are exempt from sales tax, and in which states each exemption applies.

## TaxCloud registration

Register an account on [TaxCloud.com](https://taxcloud.com/register) and
complete the setup. Once you go live, get the TaxCloud API Keys by clicking on
Stores, then Get Details.

![Example of a store's TaxCloud API Keys](../../../../_images/taxcloud-api-
keys.png)

## Enable TaxCloud

  1. Go to Accounting Dashboard â€£ Configuration â€£ Settings and in the Taxes section enable TaxCloud.

  2. Add the storeâ€™s Login ID under API ID and the storeâ€™s Key under API KEY. Click on Save.

  3. Click the Refresh button (ðŸ—˜) next to Default Category to import the TIC Taxability Information Codes product categories from TaxCloud. Some categories may imply specific tax rates or exemptions.

  4. Select a Default Category and Save. The Default Category is applied when no TaxCloud Category is set on your products or product categories, or when no product is found on an order/invoice.

![Filling in TaxCloud API Keys in Odoo](../../../../_images/taxcloud-
settings.png)

## Set TaxCloud categories on products

If you need to use more than one TIC category (i.e., the Default Category), go
to the productâ€™s General Information tab and select a TaxCloud Category.

If you want to configure multiple products simultaneously, ensure they share
the same Product Category and click on the external link button (ðŸ¡•) to set a
TaxCloud Category on the Product Category instead.

Note

If you set a TaxCloud Category on a product and another on its Product
Category, Odoo only considers the TaxCloud Category found on the product
itself.

A TaxCloud Category set on a **parent product category** does not apply to its
**child product categories**. For example, if you set TaxCloud Category on the
_All_ Product Category, it is not applied to the _All/Sales_ Product Category.

Important

Make sure your company address is complete, including the state and the ZIP
code. Go to Settings â€£ Companies: Update Info to open and edit your company
address.

## Automatically post taxes in the correct tax payable account

To make sure the new taxes generated by the TaxCloud integration are created
with the correct **Tax Payable** account, create a **user-defined default**.
This process should be repeated for each one of your companies that uses
TaxCloud.

Warning

A user-defined default impacts all records at creation. It means that
**every** new tax is set up to record income in the specified Tax Payable
account unless the tax is manually edited to specify a different income
account (or if another user-defined default takes precedence).

To do so, go to Accounting Dashboard â€£ Configuration â€£ Accounting: Chart of
Accounts, find the companyâ€™s Tax Payable account, and click on Setup. Take
note of the number after `id=` in the URL string; it is the **Tax Payable
account ID** and will be used later.

![Example of Tax Payable account id in the URL
string](../../../../_images/tax-payable-id.png)

Activate the [developer mode](../../../general/developer_mode.html#developer-
mode), then go to Settings â€£ Technical â€£ Actions: User-defined Defaults and
click on Create.

Click on Field drop-down menu and then on Search Moreâ€¦.

![User-defined Defaults Field search](../../../../_images/user-defaults-
search-more.png)

Use the search bar to filter for the Tax Repartition Line model, and use it a
second time to filter for the Account field. Select the line with Tax
Repartition Line under the Model column.

![Searching for the Tax Repartition Line model and Account
field](../../../../_images/user-defaults-search-filters.png)

Once you are back to the User-defined Defaults creation, enter the **Tax
Payable account ID** you took note of earlier under the Default Value (JSON
format) field.

Select the company for which this configuration should apply under the Company
field and click Save.

![Example of a User-defined Defaults configuration](../../../../_images/user-
defaults-complete-configuration.png)

## Automatically detect the fiscal position

Sales taxes are calculated in Odoo based on [fiscal
positions](fiscal_positions.html). A fiscal position for the United States is
created when enabling TaxCloud.

You can configure Odoo to automatically detect to which customers the fiscal
position should be applied. To do so, go to Accounting Dashboard â€£
Configuration â€£ Accounting: Fiscal Positions and select Automatic Tax Mapping
(TaxCloud). Enable Detect Automatically and then Save.

![Detect Automatically setting on the TaxCloud fiscal
position](../../../../_images/fiscal-position-detect.png)

Now, this fiscal position is automatically set on any order or invoice if the
customer country is _United States_. This triggers the automated tax
computation.

Note

To get the sales taxes on a sales order, confirm it or click the Update Taxes
button next to Add Shipping.

## Interaction with coupons and promotions

If you use the **Coupon** or **Promotion Programs** , the integration with
TaxCloud might behave unexpectedly. Indeed, as TaxCloud does not accept lines
with negative amounts as part of the tax computation, the amount of the lines
added by the promotion program must be deduced from the total of the lines it
impacts.

Important

This means, amongst other complications, that orders using coupons or
promotions with a TaxCloud fiscal position **must** be invoiced completely -
you cannot create invoices for partial deliveries, etc.

Another unexpected behavior is possible. For example, you sell a product for
which you have a promotion program that provides a 50% discount. If the
productâ€™s tax rate is 7%, the tax rate computed from the TaxCloud integration
displays 3.5%. This happens because the discount is included in the price sent
to TaxCloud. However, in Odoo, the discount is on another line entirely.
Still, the tax computation is correct. Indeed, a 3.5% tax on the full price is
the equivalent of a 7% tax on half the price, but this might be unexpected
from a user point of view.

See also

[Fiscal positions (tax and account mapping)](fiscal_positions.html)

