# Email marketing

Emails are an effective, fully-customizable form of communication that are
able to reach any target audience - large or small. The success of an email is
easily measurable, especially when a creative call-to-action is involved.

Odoo _Email Marketing_ provides professional-grade email design tools,
templates, and features, designed to simplify the otherwise complex process
required to create engaging emails, build successful campaigns, and track
their overall effectiveness in a single application.

See also

  * [Mailing lists](email_marketing/mailing_lists.html)

  * [Manage unsubscriptions (Blacklist)](email_marketing/unsubscriptions.html)

## Email marketing dashboard

To get started, click on the Email Marketing app icon, located on the main
Odoo dashboard, which leads to the main Email Marketing dashboard (in the
default kanban view).

To see all the mailings in the database, remove the default My Mailings filter
from the search bar.

![View of the main dashboard of the Odoo Email Marketing
application.](../../_images/dashboard1.png)

Note

In the search bar, by default, the filter: My Mailings is present. That means
the only information being seen (at that time) on the Email Marketing
dashboard are emails that the current user has created, sent, or is
responsible for.

This filter can be removed by clicking the X next to My Mailings in the search
bar. Doing so, reveals all the information for every email in the database.

### Default kanban view and stages

The four kanban columns each represent the various stages of emails that have
been built or sent within the _Email Marketing_ application.

The stages are: Draft, In Queue, Sending, Sent.

  * Draft: means the email is still being written/created.

  * In Queue: means the email is scheduled, and sent at a later date.

  * Sending: means the email is currently being sent to its recipients.

  * Sent: means the email has already been sent to its recipients.

In each stage, there are drag-and-drop cards representing the email campaigns
that have been created, and the stage they are in represents the current
status of that mailing.

Each mailing block on the Email Marketing dashboard provides key information
related to that specific email.

When the cursor hovers over the upper-right corner of an email campaign card,
three vertical dots (â‹®) appear. When clicked, a mini drop-down menu reveals
the option to color-code the email Delete the email altogether, or Archive the
message for potential future use.

![View of the three-dot drop-down menu on the Odoo Email Marketing
dashboard.](../../_images/three-dot-dropdown.png)

In the upper-right corner of the main Email Marketing dashboard, there are
other view options to choose from: List and Graph.

### List view

The List view (represented by the â˜° (three vertical lines) icon) provides the
same key information, but in a classic list format.

![How the List view appears in the Odoo Email Marketing
application.](../../_images/list-view1.png)

### Graph view

The Graph view (represented by the ðŸ“Š (bar graph) icon) provides the same key
information, but in a variety of customizable graph (and chart) layouts.

![How the Graph view appears in the Odoo Email Marketing
application.](../../_images/graph-view.png)

In the upper-left corner, there is a Measures menu, providing even more filter
options to further customize the graph views.

Those Measures options are: A/B Testing percentage, Color Index, and Count
(which is selected, by default).

### Filters, Group By, and Favorites search options

Regardless of the view chosen for the Email Marketing dashboard, the Filters,
Group by, and Favorites options are always available.

These options provide various ways to specify and organize the information
seen on the Email Marketing dashboard.

FiltersGroup ByFavorites

This drop-down menu provides different ways to filter email campaigns on the
dashboard. The options are: My Mailings, Sent Date, Archived, and Add Custom
Filter. If Add Custom Filter is selected, Odoo reveals an additional drop-down
menu, with three customizable fields to fill in, in order to retrieve results
that fit more specific criteria.

![View of filters drop-down menu options on the Odoo Email Marketing
dashboard.](../../_images/filters-dropdown.png)

This drop-down menu provides additional ways to organize the data on the
dashboard by grouping them in specific ways. Using this drop-down menu, the
data can be grouped by the messagesâ€™ Status, or who it was Sent By.

There is also the option to group the data by Sent Period, which has its own
sub-menu of options to choose from. The Sent Period options are Year, Quarter,
Month, Week, and Day.

If none of the above Group By options deliver the desired results, click Add
Custom Group at the bottom of the drop-down menu. Doing so reveals a new
field, wherein custom criteria can be selected and applied, thus delivering
any grouping of data that may be desired.

![View of the Group By drop-down menu on the Odoo Email Marketing
application.](../../_images/group-by-dropdown.png)

This drop-down menu provides different ways to incorporate past search filters
and other record-related options to customize the dashboard. The options are:
Save current search, Import records, Add to my dashboard, and Add to Google
Spreadsheet.

![View of the Favorites drop-down menu on the Odoo Email Marketing
application.](../../_images/favorites-dropdown.png)

## Settings

To view (and modify) the _Email Marketing_ settings, navigate to Email
Marketing application â€£ Configuration â€£ Settings.

![View of the Settings page in the Odoo Email Marketing
application.](../../_images/settings-page.png)

On this Settings page, there are three features available. The features are:
Mailing Campaigns, Blacklist Option when Unsubscribing, and Dedicated Server.

  * Mailing Campaigns: enables the option to manage mass mailing campaigns.

  * Blacklist Option when Unsubscribing: allows recipients to blacklist themselves from future mailings during the unsubscribing process.

  * Dedicated Server: provides the option to utilize a separate, dedicated server for mailings. When enabled, Odoo reveals a new field (and link), in which the specific server configurations must be entered, in order for it to connect properly to Odoo.

## Create an email

To create an email, open the Email Marketing application, and click the Create
button in the upper-left corner.

Clicking Create reveals a blank email detail form.

![View of a blank email detail form in Odoo Email Marketing
application.](../../_images/blank-email-detail-form.png)

First, enter a Subject to the email. The Subject is visible in the recipientsâ€™
inbox, allowing them to get quickly see what the message is about.

Note

The Subject field is mandatory. An email can not be sent without a Subject.

Tip

The â˜º (smiley face) icon at the end of the Subject field (and Preview Text
field) represents emojis. Click that â˜º (smiley face) icon to reveal a menu of
emojis that can be used in either field.

Next, there is the option to enter some Preview Text. This text is a catchy
preview sentence that encourages recipients to open the message. In most
inboxes, this is displayed next to the subject.

Tip

Keep the Preview Text empty to show the first characters of the email content,
instead.

### Recipients

After that, itâ€™s time to choose the recipients of this email, which can be
completed in the Recipients field.

![View of recipients drop-down menu in the Odoo Email Marketing
application.](../../_images/recipients-dropdown.png)

The default option is Mailing List. If Mailing List option is selected, a
specific Mailing List needs to be chosen from the adjacent Select mailing
lists field drop-down menu.

Then, Odoo will only send this email to contacts on that specific mailing
list.

See also

[Mailing lists](email_marketing/mailing_lists.html)

When the Recipients field is clicked, a drop-down menu of other options is
revealed. Each option provides different ways Odoo can create a target
audience for the email.

Those options (excluding the default Mailing List) provide the option to
create a more specified recipient filter, in an equation-like format.

The Recipients field options are as follows:

  * Applicant: filter focuses on specific job applicants in the database.

  * Contact: filter focuses on specific contacts in the database.

  * Event Registration: filter focuses on people in the database who purchased event registrations.

  * Event Track: filter focuses on people in the database who hosted a specific talk (track) at an event.

  * Lead/Opportunity: filter focuses on leads or opportunities in the database.

  * Mailing Contact: filter focuses on specific mailing contacts in the database.

  * Sales Order: filter focuses on a specific sales orders in the database.

If the specified recipient fields donâ€™t automatically reveal themselves,
simply click the Add Filter button beneath the Recipients field, and Odoo
reveals the necessary equation fields to further drill down the target
recipients for this mailing.

### Add a recipient filter

To add a more specified recipient filter, select any recipient option (other
than Mailing List), and clicking Add Filter, if needed, to reveal three
fields, formatted like an equation.

To reveal the sub-menu options, click each field, and make the desired
selections, until the preferred configuration has been achieved. The number of
Records that match the rule(s) are indicated to the right of the Recipients
field, in green.

![View of how recipient filters can be customized in Odoo Email
Marketing.](../../_images/add-filter-button.png)

Note

Some sub-menu options in the first rule field allow for a second choice to
provide even more specificity.

To the right of each rule, are Ã— (Delete node), ï¼‹ (Add node), and â‹¯ (Add
branch) icons.

The Ã— (Delete node) icon deletes a specific node (line) of the rule. The ï¼‹
(Add node) icon adds a node (line) to the rule. And, the â‹¯ (Add branch) icon
adds a branch to the node. A branch means two additional, indented sub-nodes
are added to the rule, providing even more specificity to the line above it.

### Mail body tab

At the bottom of the email form are two tabs: Mail Body and Settings. Letâ€™s
focus on Mail Body tab first.

In the Mail Body tab, there are a number of pre-configured message templates
to choose from. Select the desired template, and modify every element of its
design details with Odooâ€™s drag-and-drop building blocks, located on the right
sidebar. Each building block provides unique features and professional design
elements.

![View of the building blocks used to create mailings in Odoo Email Marketing
application.](../../_images/mail-blocks.png)

Tip

To build an email from scratch, select the Plain Text template, and Odoo
provides a blank email canvas, which can be customized in a number of ways -
either by using the front-end rich text editor that accepts slash (/)
commands, or with the XML code editor when [Developer Mode (debug
mode)](../general/developer_mode.html#developer-mode) is engaged, and the </>
icon is clicked.

### Settings tab

To the right of the Mail Body tab is the Settings tab.

Note

The options available in the Settings tab will be different, depending on if
the Mailing Campaigns feature is activated in the Settings page of the Email
Marketing application (Email Marketing â€£ Configuration â€£ Settings).

Without the Mailing Campaigns feature activated, the Settings tab on the email
detail form looks like this:

![View of settings tab in Odoo Email Marketing app, without settings
activated.](../../_images/settings-without-features.png)

  * Responsible: choose an employee (in the database) to be responsible for this particular email.

  * Send From: designate an email alias thatâ€™ll display as the sender of this particular email.

  * Reply To: designate an email alias to whom all the replies to this particular email will be sent.

  * Attachments: if any specific documents are required (or helpful) for this event invite, they can be sent along with this email, by clicking ATTACH A FILE, and adding the appropriate document(s).

When the Mailing Campaigns feature _is_ activated, additional Marketing
options appear in the Settings tab, which look like this:

![View of settings tab in Odoo Email Marketing when settings are
activated.](../../_images/settings-tab-with-settings.png)

The additional features are: Mailing Campaign, Allow A/B Testing, and A/B
Testing percentage.

## Mailing campaigns

The Mailing Campaign field provides the option to add this particular email to
a previously-made email campaign in the database. Click the empty field to
reveal a drop-down menu containing all previously-made mailing campaigns in
the database.

![View of a mailing campaign drop-down menu in Odoo Email Marketing
application.](../../_images/mailing-campaign-dropdown.png)

If the desired campaign isnâ€™t available in the initial drop-down menu, select
Search More to reveal a complete list of all mailing campaigns in the
database. Or, type the name of the desired mailing campaign in the Mailing
Campaign field, until Odoo reveals the desired campaign in the drop-down menu.
Then, select the desired campaign.

### Create new mailing campaign (from Settings tab)

To create a new campaign from this Mailing Campaign field, start typing the
name of this new campaign, and select Create [Campaign Name] or Create and
Editâ€¦.

Click Create to add this new mailing campaign to the database, and modify its
settings in the future. And click Create and Editâ€¦ to add this new mailing
campaign to the database, and Odoo reveals a pop-up window.

![View of the email mailing campaign pop-up window in Odoo Email Marketing
application.](../../_images/mailing-campaign-popup.png)

Here, the new mailing campaign can be further customized. Adjust the Campaign
Name, assign a Responsible, and add Tags.

The top row of the Create: Mailing Campaign pop-up window is filled with
analytical smart buttons. Each of which displays various metrics related to
the campaign. When clicked, Odoo reveals a separate, more detailed page with
even more in-depth statistics.

The option to instantly a new communication from this pop-up window is
available in the upper-left corner. The adjustable status bar is located in
the upper-right.

When all modifications are ready to be finalized, click Save. To delete the
entire campaign, click Discard.

### Create new mailing campaign (from Campaigns page)

When the Mailing Campaigns feature is activated, a new Campaigns option
appears in the header of the _Email Marketing_ application. Campaigns can also
be created on this Campaigns page in the _Email Marketing_ app.

To do that, navigate to Email Marketing app â€£ Campaigns â€£ Create. When thatâ€™s
clicked, a pop-up window appears, in which the Campaign Name, Responsible, and
Tags can be added directly on the Campaigns dashboard.

![View of the campaign pop-up window in Odoo Email
Marketing.](../../_images/campaigns-page-popup.png)

Click Add to add the campaign to the database, and freely edit it later on.
Or, click Edit and Odoo reveals the campaign template form on a separate page,
providing the opportunity to further edit the campaign, send communications
related to the campaign, and analyze various metrics related to the campaign,
via the smart buttons at the top of the form.

## A/B testing

Back in the Settings tab of the mailing, if the Allow A/B Testing box is
checked, recipients are only be mailed to once. This allows different mailings
to be sent to randomly selected recipients. This tests the overall
effectiveness of the mailing, and eliminates the need for duplicate messages.

The A/B Testing percentage field represents the percentage of contacts in the
database that this message will be mailed to, as a part of the A/B Testing.
Enter a number between `1-100`. The recipients are randomly chosen.

## Send, schedule, or test

After finalizing the mailing, Odoo provides the following options in the
upper-left corner of the email template page. Those options are: Send,
Schedule, and Test.

While in Edit mode, there are also buttons to Save or Discard the mailing, as
well.

  * Send \- Click to have Odoo send the email to the desired recipients. When Odoo has sent the mailing, the status changes to _Sent_.

  * Schedule \- Click to reveal a pop-up window, in which a future date-time is chosen. Odoo sends the mailing to the desired recipients at that specified date-time. When a date-time is chosen, the status of the mailing changes to _In Queue_.

  * Test \- Click to reveal a pop-up window, in which Odoo allows a sample email to be sent for testing purposes. Enter the desired recipientâ€™s email address in the Recipients field, and click Send Sample Mail.

  * Save \- Click to save the mailing as a draft, which can be edited (and sent) at a later date. When clicked, the status of the mailing stays as Draft.

  * Discard \- Click to discard any changes that have been made since the last save.

Tip

When Save or Discard is selected (while in Edit mode), those options are
replaced with an Edit button and a Create button. Click Edit to re-enter Edit
mode. Click Create to start creating a new mailing.

Note

By default, thereâ€™s a daily limit applied for **all emails** sent throughout
_all_ applications. So, if there are remaining emails to be sent after a limit
has been reached, those mailings _will not_ be sent automatically the next
day. The sending needs to be forced, by opening the email and clicking Retry.

  * [Mailing lists](email_marketing/mailing_lists.html)
  * [Manage unsubscriptions (Blacklist)](email_marketing/unsubscriptions.html)

