# Multi-employee management

Odoo Point of Sale allows you to manage access to a specific POS by enabling
the **Multi Employees per Session** feature. When activated, you can select
which users can log into the POS and keep track of the employees involved in
each order.

## Configuration

[Access the POS settings](configuration.html#configuration-settings) and
select your POS, or click the vertical ellipsis button (â‹®) on a POS card and
click Edit. Then, enable Multi Employees per Session, and add the allowed
employees in the Allowed Employees field.

![setting to enable multiple cashiers in POS](../../../_images/setting.png)

## Practical application

Once the feature is activated, cashiers can log in by scanning their badge or
selecting their name from the list of allowed employees to [open the
session](../point_of_sale.html#pos-session-start).

![window to open a session when the multiple cashiers feature is
enabled](../../../_images/open-session.png)

To switch to another user [from an open session](../point_of_sale.html#pos-
session-start), click the employee name at the top-right of the screen and
select the employee to swap with from the list.

![button to switch from one cashier to another.](../../../_images/switch-
user.png)

You can also require your employees to enter a pin code every time they log
into a POS to prevent them from logging in as someone else. To define the
code, go to the **Employees** app, open the employee form, and click the HR
settings tab. Then, enter a pin code of your choice in the PIN Code field of
the Attendance/Point of Sale category.

![setting on the employee form to assign a badge ID and a PIN
code.](../../../_images/pin-and-badgeid.png)

### Log in using badges

For your employees to be able to log in by scanning their badge, they must
have a badge ID assigned. To do so, go to the **Employees** app, open the
employee form, and click the HR settings tab. Then, enter the badge ID of your
choice in the Badge ID field of the Attendance/Point of Sale category or click
Generate.

To switch to another user, lock the session by clicking the lock-shaped icon
(ðŸ”“) at the top-right of the screen and scan your badge.

## Analytics

Once you close and post the POS session, access the comprehensive report to
review all session activities, including who initiated the session and who
handled specific orders. To access the sessionâ€™s report, click the vertical
ellipsis button (â‹®) on the POS card and select Sessions from the View section.
Then, select a specific session for more detailed information, and click the
Orders button to view a list of all orders placed during that session.

To get an overview of all orders, regardless of the session, click the
vertical ellipsis button (â‹®) on the POS card and select Orders from the View
section.

