# Convert leads into opportunities

_Leads_ act as qualifying steps before an opportunity is created. This
provides additional time before a potential opportunity is assigned to a sales
person.

## Configuration

To activate the _Leads_ setting, navigate to CRM app ‣ Configuration ‣
Settings and check the box labeled, Leads. Then, click Save.

![Leads setting on CRM configuration page.](../../../../_images/convert-leads-
leads-setting.png)

Activating this feature adds a new menu, Leads, to the header menu bar at the
top of the screen.

![Leads menu on CRM application.](../../../../_images/convert-leads-leads-
menu.png)

Once the _Leads_ setting has been activated, it applies to all sales teams by
default. To turn off leads for a specific team, navigate to CRM app ‣
Configuration ‣ Sales Teams. Then, select a team from the list to open the
record, and uncheck the Leads box. Once done, click Save.

![Leads menu on CRM application.](../../../../_images/convert-leads-leads-
button.png)

## Convert a lead into an opportunity

To convert a lead into an _opportunity_ , navigate to CRM ‣ Leads, and click
on a Lead from the list to open it.

In the upper-left corner of the screen, click the Convert to Opportunity
button, which opens a Convert to opportunity pop-up window.

![Create opportunity button on a lead record.](../../../../_images/convert-
leads-convert-opp-button.png)

On the Convert to opportunity pop-up window, in the Conversion action field,
select the Convert to opportunity option.

Note

If a lead, or an opportunity, already exists in the database for this
customer, Odoo automatically suggests merging both leads/opportunities. For
more information on merging leads and opportunities, see the section on how to
merge leads below.

Then, select a Salesperson and a Sales Team to which the opportunity should be
assigned.

If the lead has already been assigned to a salesperson or a team, these fields
automatically populate with that information.

![Create opportunity pop-up.](../../../../_images/convert-leads-conversion-
action.png)

Under the Customer heading, choose from the following options:

  * Create a new customer: Choose this option to use the information in the lead to create a new customer.

  * Link to an existing customer: Choose this option, then select a customer from the resulting drop-down menu, to link this opportunity to the existing customer record.

  * Do not link to a customer: Choose this option to convert the lead, but not link it to a new or existing customer.

Lastly, when all configurations are complete, click Create Opportunity.

## Merge leads and opportunities

Odoo automatically detects similar leads and opportunities by comparing the
email addresses of the associated contacts. If a similar lead/opportunity is
found, a Similar Lead smart button appears at the top of the lead/opportunity
record.

![Similar leads smart button.](../../../../_images/convert-leads-similar-
leads.png)

To compare the details of the similar leads/opportunities, click the Similar
Leads button. This opens a kanban view with only the similar
leads/opportunities. Click into each card to view the details for each
lead/opportunity, and confirm if they should be merged.

Important

When merging, Odoo gives priority to whichever lead/opportunity was created in
the system first, merging the information into the first created
lead/opportunity. However, if a lead and an opportunity are being merged, the
resulting record is referred to as an opportunity, regardless of which record
was created first.

After confirming that the leads/opportunities should be merged, return to the
kanban view using breadcrumbs, or by clicking the Similar Lead smart button.
Click the ☰ (three vertical lines) icon to change to list view.

Check the box on the left of the page for the leads/opportunities to be
merged. Then, click the Action ⚙️ (gear) icon at the top of the page, to
reveal a drop-down menu. From that drop-down menu, select the Merge option to
merge the selected opportunities (or leads).

When Merge is selected from the Action ⚙️ (gear) drop-down menu, a Merge pop-
up window appears. In that pop-up window, decide to Assign opportunities to a
Salesperson and/or Sales Team.

Below those fields, the leads/opportunities to merge are listed, along with
their related information. To merge those selected leads/opportunities, click
Merge.

Note

When merging opportunities, no information is lost. Data from the other
opportunity is logged in the chatter, and the information fields, for
reference.

![Merge option from action menu in list view.](../../../../_images/convert-
leads-merge.png)

