# Selecting a replenishment strategy

In Odoo, there are two strategies for automatically replenishing inventory:
_reordering rules_ and the _make to order (MTO)_ route. Although these
strategies differ slightly, they both have similar consequences: triggering
the automatic creation of a PO or MO. The choice of which strategy to use
depends on the business’s manufacturing and delivery processes.

## Terminology

### Replenishment report and reordering rules

The replenishment report is a list of all products that have a negative
forecast quantity.

_Reordering rules_ are used to ensure there’s always a minimum amount of a
product in-stock, in order to manufacture products and/or fulfill sales
orders. When the stock level of a product reaches its minimum, Odoo
automatically generates a purchase order with the quantity needed to reach the
maximum stock level.

Reordering rules can be created and managed in the replenishment report, or
from the product form.

### Make to order

_Make to order (MTO)_ is a procurement route that creates a draft purchase
order (or manufacturing order) each time a sales order is confirmed,
**regardless of the current stock level**.

Unlike products replenished using reordering rules, Odoo automatically links
the sales order to the PO or MO generated by the MTO route.

Another difference between reordering rules and MTO is, with MTO, Odoo
generates a draft PO or MO immediately after the SO is confirmed. With
reordering rules, Odoo generates a draft PO or MO when the product’s
forecasted stock falls below the set minimum quantity.

In addition, Odoo automatically adds quantities to the PO or MO as the
forecast changes, so long as the PO or MO is not confirmed.

The MTO route is the best replenishment strategy for products that are
customized, and/or for products that have no stock kept on-hand.

## Configuration

### Replenishment report and reordering rules

To access the replenishment report, go to Inventory app ‣ Operations ‣
Replenishment.

By default, the replenishment report dashboard shows every product that needs
to be manually reordered. If there is no specific rule for a product, Odoo
assumes the Min Quantity and Max Quantity stock are both `0.00`

Note

For products that don’t have a set reordering rule, Odoo calculates the
forecast based on confirmed sales orders, deliveries, and receipts. For
products that have a set reordering rule, Odoo calculates the forecast
normally, but also takes into account the purchase/manufacturing lead time and
security lead time.

Important

Before creating a new reordering rule, make sure the product has a _vendor_ or
a _bill of materials_ configured on the product form. To check this, go to
Inventory app ‣ Products ‣ Products, and select the product to open its
product form. The vendor, if configured, is listed in the Purchase tab, and
the bill on materials, if configured, is found in the Bill of Materials smart
button at the top of the form.

The Product Type, located in the General Information tab on the product form,
**must** be set to Storable Product. By definition, a consumable product does
not have its inventory levels tracked, so Odoo cannot account for a consumable
product in the replenishment report.

![Replenishment report listing all items needing to be purchased to meet
current needs.](../../../../../_images/replenishment-report-dashboard.png)

To create a new reordering rule from the replenishment report, go to Inventory
app ‣ Operations ‣ Replenishment, click Create, and select the desired product
from the drop-down menu in the Product column. If necessary, a Min Quantity
and a Max Quantity can be configured in the corresponding columns on the
Replenishment report page, as well.

To create a new reordering rule from the product form, go to Inventory app ‣
Products ‣ Products, and select a product to open its product form. Click the
Reordering Rules smart button, click Create, and fill out the fields.

#### Replenishment report fields

The following fields are on the Replenishment report. If any of these fields
are not visible, click the ⋮ (additional options) icon on the far right side
of the report, then click the checkbox next to a field to make it visible.

  * Product: the product that requires a replenishment.

  * Location: the specific location where the product is stored.

  * Warehouse: the warehouse where the product is stored.

  * On Hand: the amount of product currently available.

  * Forecast: the amount of product available after all current orders (sales, manufacturing, purchase, etc.) are taken into account.

  * Preferred Route: how the product is procured, either Buy, Manufactured, Dropship, etc.

  * Vendor: the company from which the product is acquired.

  * Bill of Materials: the bill of materials for the product (if one is configured).

  * Trigger: how the replenishment is created, either Auto (automatically, once the On Hand quantity goes below the Min Quantity) or Manual (only when the replenishment is requested).

  * Procurement Group: the reference number for how the product is being acquired, such as a sales order, purchase order, or manufacturing order.

  * Min Quantity: the minimum amount of product that should be available. When inventory levels goes below this number, the replenishment is triggered.

  * Max Quantity: the amount of product that should be available after replenishing the product.

  * Multiple Quantity: if the product should be ordered in specific quantities, enter the number that should be ordered. For example, if the Multiple Quantity is set to `5`, and only 3 are needed, 5 products are replenished.

  * To Order: the amount of product that is currently needed, and will be ordered, if the Order Once or Automate Orders button is clicked.

  * UoM: the unit of measure used to acquire the product.

  * Company: the company for which the product is acquired.

By default, the quantity in the To Order field is the quantity required to
reach the set Max Quantity. However, the To Order quantity can be adjusted by
clicking on the field and changing the value. To replenish a product manually,
click Order Once.

To automate a replenishment from the Replenishment page, click Automate Orders
on the right-side of the line, represented by a 🔄 (circular arrow) icon.

When this button is clicked, Odoo will automatically generate a draft PO/MO
every time the forecasted stock level falls below the set Min Quantity of the
reordering rule.

On the Replenishment page, a reordering rule or manual replenishment can be
temporarily deactivated for a given period, by clicking the 🔕 (snooze) icon on
the far-right of the line.

![Snooze options to turn off notifications for reordering for a period of
time.](../../../../../_images/reordering-rule-snooze-settings.png)

A PO or MO created by a manual replenishment has a Replenishment Report as the
source document. A PO or MO created by an automated reordering rule has the SO
reference number(s) that triggered the rule as the source document.

![Quote request list shows which quotes are directly from the replenishment
report.](../../../../../_images/rfq-source-document.png)

## Make to order (MTO) route

Since the MTO route is recommended for customized products, the route is
hidden by default.

To activate the MTO route in Odoo:

    

  1. Go to Inventory app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings.

  2. Activate the Multi-Step Routes setting, located under the Warehouse section, and click Save.

  3. Then, go to Inventory app ‣ Configuration ‣ Routes.

  4. Click on Filters ‣ Archived to show archived routes.

  5. Select the checkbox next to Replenish on Order (MTO), and click on Action ‣ Unarchive.

Note

Activating the Multi-Step Routes setting also activates Storage Locations. If
these features aren’t applicable to the warehouse, disable these settings
after unarchiving the MTO route.

To set a product’s procurement route to MTO, go to Inventory app ‣ Products ‣
Products, and click on the desired product to open its product form.

Then, click the Inventory tab, and in the Routes section of options, select
Replenish on Order (MTO).

For products purchased directly from a vendor, make sure the Buy route is
selected, in addition to the Replenish on Order (MTO) route. Also, make sure a
vendor is configured in the Purchase tab of the product form.

For products manufactured in-house, make sure the Manufacture route is
selected, in addition to the Replenish on Order (MTO) route. Also, make sure a
bill of materials is configured for the product, which is accessible via the
Bill of Materials smart button on the product form.

Note

The MTO route cannot be selected alone. MTO **only** works if the Manufacture
or Buy route is also selected.

![Replenish on Order selected on the product
form.](../../../../../_images/acoustic-block-screen-replenish.png)

  *[PO]: Purchase Order
  *[MO]: Manufacturing Order
  *[MTO]: Make to Oder
  *[SO]: Sales Order

