# ECO type

An _ECO type_ is assigned to _engineering change orders_ (ECOs) to organize
and track changes to products and bills of materials (BoMs). Each ECO type
separates ECOs into a project in Gantt view, ensuring collaborators and
stakeholders **only** view and assist with relevant BoM improvements.

For example, an electronic chip manufacturer might use “New Product
Introduction”, “Product Improvement”, “Component Change”, and “Firmware
Update” ECO types. Then, designers and engineers can focus on ECOs in the “New
Product Introduction” and “Product Improvement” projects, avoiding unrelated
supplier change or firmware update ECOs.

## Create ECO type

To access and manage ECO types, navigate to PLM app ‣ Configuration ‣ ECO
Types.

Create a new ECO type by clicking New. On the new ECO Types form, fill in the
following information:

  * Name: the name of the ECO type, which will organize all of the ECOs of this _type_ in a project.

  * Email Alias: if this optional field is filled, emails submitted to this email address automatically generate ECOs in the left-most stage of this ECO type.

Example

The `Formulation change` ECO type is used to organize and track related ECOs
in a single project. Configuring the Email Alias field generates ECOs in the
`Formulation change` project sent to the email address, `pawlish-
change@pawlished-glam.odoo.com`.

![Example of an ECO type.](../../../../_images/create-eco-type.png)

## Edit ECO type

Modify existing ECO type names and email aliases by navigating to the PLM app
‣ Configuration ‣ ECO Types page. There, click on the desired ECO type from
the list.

On the form for each ECO type, proceed to edit the Name and Email Alias
fields.

## Étapes

Within an ECO type project, _stages_ are like milestones and are used to
identify the progress of the ECO before the changes are ready to be applied.
(e.g. “Feedback”, “In Progress”, “Approved”, “Complete”)

Additionally, required approvers can be added to each stage, ensuring that
changes to the production BoM cannot proceed until the approver reviews and
approves the ECO. Doing so prevents errors on the production BoM by enforcing
at least one review of suggested changes before they’re applied on a
production BoM.

For best practice, there should be at least one _verification_ stage, which is
a stage with a required approver, and one _closing_ stage, which stores ECOs
that have been either canceled or approved for use as the next production BoM.

### Create stage

To add a stage, go to the PLM app and select the intended project for an ECO
type from the PLM Overview dashboard.

Then, on the Engineering Change Orders project pipeline for the ECO type,
click the \+ Stage button. Doing so reveals a text box to fill in the name of
the stage. After filling it in, click the Add button to finish adding the
stage.

Example

A new `Assigned` stage separates assigned ECOs from the unassigned ones in the
`New` stage. Adding another stage helps the product manager track unassigned
tasks.

![Create a new stage in a project for an ECO
type.](../../../../_images/create-stage.png)

### Verification stage

Click an ECO type from PLM app ‣ Overview to open a kanban view of ECOs of
this type.

To configure a verification stage, hover over the intended stage, and select
the ⚙️ (gear) icon. Then, click Edit to open a pop-up window.

Configure the verification stage in the edit stage pop-up window, by checking
the box for Allow to apply changes.

Then, add an approver in the Approvers section, by clicking Add a line, and
specifying the Role of the reviewer, their User, and Approval Type.

Make sure at least one approver is configured with the Approval Type: Is
required to approve.

The approver listed is automatically notified when ECOs are dropped in the
stage specified in the pop-up window. Once finished, click Save & Close.

Example

In the ECO type `New Product Introduction`, the verification stage `Validated`
is configured by clicking the ⚙️ (gear) icon, and selecting Edit. Doing so
opens the Edit: Validated pop-up window.

By adding the `Engineering manager` as an approver, only ECOs approved by this
user can proceed to the next stage, and have the changes applied on the
production BoM.

Additionally, check the Allow to apply changes option to ensure proper
behavior.

![Show "Allow to apply changes" option is
checked.](../../../../_images/verification-stage.png)

### Closing stage

Configure a closing stage by opening the Edit: [stage] pop-up window. To do
so, hover over the intended stage and click the ⚙️ (gear) icon that appears in
the top-right corner. Then, click Edit from the drop-down menu.

On the Edit: [stage] pop-up window, select the check boxes for Folded in
kanban view, Allow to apply changes and Final Stage.

Example

The closing stage, `Effective` is configured by checking the Folded in kanban
view, Allow to apply changes, and Final Stage options

![Show configurations of the closing stage.](../../../../_images/closing-
stage.png)

  *[ECO]: Engineering Change Order
  *[ECOs]: Engineering Change Orders
  *[BoM]: Bill of Materials

