# Adyen

[Adyen](https://www.adyen.com/) is a Dutch company that offers several online
payment possibilities.

See also

  * [Enable a payment provider](../payment_providers.html#payment-providers-add-new)

  * [Online payments](../payment_providers.html)

Note

Adyen works only with customers processing **more** than **10 million
annually** or invoicing a **minimum** of **1.000** transactions **per month**.

## Configuration

See also

[Enable a payment provider](../payment_providers.html#payment-providers-add-
new)

### Credentials tab

Odoo needs your **API Credentials** to connect with your Adyen account, which
comprise:

  * **Merchant Account** : The code of the merchant account to use with Adyen.

  * API Key: The API key of the webservice user.

  * Client Key: The client key of the webservice user.

  * HMAC Key: The HMAC key of the webhook.

  * Checkout API URL: The base URL for the Checkout API endpoints.

  * Recurring API URL: The base URL for the Recurring API endpoints.

You can copy your credentials from your Adyen account, and paste them in the
related fields under the **Credentials** tab.

Important

If you are trying Adyen as a test, with an Adyen _test account_ , head to
Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Payment Providers. There, click on Adyen, enable
Test Mode and enter your credentials in the Credentials tab.

#### API Key and Client Key

In order to retrieve the API Key and the Client Key, log into your Adyen
account, go to Developers ‣ API Credentials.

  * If you already have an API user, open it.

  * If you don’t have an API user yet, click on **Create new credential**.

Go to Server settings ‣ Authentification and copy or generate your **API
Key**. Be careful to copy your API key as you’ll not be allowed to get it
later without generating a new one.

Now, head to Client settings ‣ Authentification and cody or generate your
**Client Key**. This is also the place where you can allow payments to be made
from your website.

#### HMAC key

In order to retrieve the HMAC Key, you’ll need to configure a `Standard
Notification` webhook. For this, log into your Adyen account then go to
Developers ‣ Webhooks ‣ Add webhook ‣ Add Standard notification.

![Configure a webhook.](../../../_images/adyen-add-webhook.png)

There, in General ‣ Server configuration ‣ URL, enter your server address
followed by `/payment/adyen/notification`.

![Enter the notification URL.](../../../_images/adyen-webhook-url.png)

Then enter Security ‣ HMAC Key ‣ Generate. Be careful to copy the key as you
will not be allowed to do it later without generating a new one.

![Generate a HMAC key and save it.](../../../_images/adyen-hmac-key.png)

You have to save the webhook to finalize its creation.

#### API URLs

All Adyen API URLs include a customer area-specific prefix generated by Adyen.
To configure the URLs, proceed as follows:

  1. Log into your Adyen account, then go to Developers ‣ API URLs.

  2. Copy the Prefix for your live Customer area (i.e., **data center**) and save it for later.

![Copy the prefix for the Adyen APIs](../../../_images/adyen-api-urls.png)

  3. In Odoo, [navigate to the payment provider Adyen](../payment_providers.html#payment-providers-add-new).

  4. In the Checkout API URL field, enter the following URL and replace `yourprefix` with the prefix you previously saved: `https://yourprefix-checkout-live.adyenpayments.com/checkout`

  5. In the Recurring API URL field, enter the following URL and replace `yourprefix` with the prefix you previously saved: `https://yourprefix-pal-live.adyenpayments.com/pal/servlet/Recurring`.

Note

If you are trying Adyen as a test, you can use the following URLs instead:

  * Checkout API URL: `https://checkout-test.adyen.com`

  * Recurring API URL: `https://pal-test.adyen.com/pal/servlet/Recurring`

### Adyen Account

#### Allow payments from a specific origin

To allow payment originated from your website, follow the steps in API Key and
Client Key to navigate to your API user and go to Add allowed origins, then
add the URLs from where payments will be made (the URLs of the servers hosting
your Odoo instances).

![Allows payments originated from a specific domain.](../../../_images/adyen-
allowed-origins.png)

### Place a hold on a card

Adyen allows you to capture an amount manually instead of having an immediate
capture.

To set it up, enable the **Capture Amount Manually** option on Odoo, as
explained in the [payment providers
documentation](../payment_providers.html#payment-providers-manual-capture).

Then, open your Adyen Merchant Account, go to Account ‣ Settings, and set the
**Capture Delay** to **manual**.

![Capture Delay settings in Adyen](../../../_images/adyen_capture_delay.png)

Caution

  * If you configure Odoo to capture amounts manually, make sure to set the **Capture Delay** to **manual** on Adyen. Otherwise, the transaction will be blocked in the authorized state in Odoo.

  * Odoo doesn’t support the partial capture yet. Be aware that if you make a partial capture from Adyen’s interface, Odoo will manage it as if it was a full capture.

Note

After **7 days** , if the transaction hasn’t been captured yet, the customer
has the right to **revoke** it.

See also

[Online payments](../payment_providers.html)

