# Utilisateurs

Odoo defines a _user_ as someone who has access to a database. An
administrator can add as many users as the company needs and, in order to
restrict the type of information each user can access, rules can be applied to
each user. Users and access rights can be added and changed at any point.

Pour plus d'infos

  * [Changer la langue](users/language.html)

  * [Droits d’accès](users/access_rights.html)

  * [Superuser mode](users/access_rights.html#access-rights-superuser)

  * [Create and modify groups](users/access_rights.html#access-rights-groups)

## Ajouter des utilisateurs individuels

To add new users, navigate to Settings app ‣ Users section ‣ Manage Users, and
click on Create.

![View of the settings page emphasizing the manage users field in
Odoo.](../../_images/manage-users.png)

Fill in the form with all the required information. Under the [Access
Rights](users/access_rights.html) tab, choose the group within each
application the user can have access to.

La liste des applications affichées est basée sur les applications installées
sur la base de données.

![View of a user's form emphasizing the access rights tab in
Odoo.](../../_images/new-user.png)

After filling out all the necessary fields on the page, click Save. An
invitation email is automatically sent to the user, using the email in the
Email Address field. The user must click on the link included in the email to
accept the invitation, and to create a database login.

![View of a user's form with a notification that the invitation email has been
sent in Odoo.](../../_images/invitation-email.png)

Avertissement

If the company is on a monthly subscription plan, the database automatically
updates to reflect the added users. If the company is on a yearly or multi-
year plan, an expiration banner appears in the database. An upsell quotation
can be created by clicking the banner to update the subscription.
Alternatively, [send a support ticket](https://www.odoo.com/help) to resolve
the issue.

### User type

With the [developer mode](developer_mode.html#developer-mode) activated, User
Type can be selected from the Access Rights tab of the user form, accessible
via Settings app ‣ Users section ‣ Manage Users.

There are three types of users: Internal User, Portal, and Public.

![View of a user's form in developer mode emphasizing the user type field in
Odoo.](../../_images/user-type.png)

Astuce

Users are considered internal database users. Portal users are external users,
who only have access to the database portal to view records. See the
documentation on [Accès au portail](users/portal.html).

Public users are those visiting websites, via the website’s frontend.

The Portal and Public user options do **not** allow the administrator to
choose access rights. These users have specific access rights pre-set (such
as, record rules and restricted menus), and usually do not belong to the usual
Odoo groups.

## Désactiver des utilisateurs

To deactivate (i.e. archive) a user, navigate to Settings app ‣ Users section
‣ Manage Users. Then, tick the checkbox to the left of the user(s) to be
deactivated.

After selecting the appropriate user to be archived, click the ⚙️ Actions
icon, and select Archive from the resulting drop-down menu. Then, click OK
from the Confirmation pop-up window that appears.

Danger

**Never** deactivate the main/administrator user (admin). Making changes to
admin users can have a detrimental impact on the database. This includes
_impotent admin_ , which means that no user in the database can make changes
to the access rights. For this reason, Odoo recommends contacting an Odoo
Business Analyst, or our Support Team, before making changes.

### Error: too many users

If there are more users in an Odoo database than provisioned in the Odoo
Enterprise subscription, the following message is displayed.

![Too many users on a database error message.](../../_images/add-more-
users1.png)

When the message appears, the database administrator has 30 days to act before
the database expires. The countdown is updated every day.

To resolve the issue, either:

  * Add more users to the subscription by clicking the Upgrade your subscription link displayed in the message to validate the upsell quotation, and pay for the extra users.

  * Deactivate users, and reject the upsell quotation.

Avertissement

If the company is on a monthly subscription plan, the database automatically
updates to reflect the added users. If the company is on a yearly or multi-
year plan, an expiration banner appears in the database. An upsell quotation
can be created by clicking the banner to update the subscription.
Alternatively, users can [send a support ticket](https://www.odoo.com/help) to
resolve the issue.

Once the database has the correct number of users, the expiration message
disappears automatically after a few days, when the next verification occurs.

## Password management

Password management is an important part of granting users autonomous access
to the database at all times. Odoo offers a few different methods to reset a
user’s password.

Astuce

Odoo has a setting to specify the length needed for a password. This setting
can be accessed by navigating to Settings app ‣ Permissions section, and
entering the desired password length in the Minimum Password Length field. By
default the value is `8`.

![Minimum Password Length highlighted in the Permissions section of General
Settings.](../../_images/minimum-password-length.png)

### Reset password

Sometimes, users might wish to reset their personal password for added
security, so they are the only ones with access to the password. Odoo offers
two different reset options: one initiated by the user to reset the password,
and another where the administrator triggers a reset.

#### Enable password reset from login page

It is possible to enable/disable password resets directly from the login page.
This action is completed by the individual user, and this setting is enabled
by default.

To change this setting, go to Settings app ‣ Permissions section, activate
Password Reset, and then click Save.

![Permettre la réinitialisation du mot de passe dans les paramètres
d'Odoo](../../_images/password-reset-login.png)

On the login page, click Reset Password to initiate the password reset
process, and have a reset-token sent to the email on file.

![Login screen on Odoo.com with the password reset option
highlighted.](../../_images/password-reset.png)

#### Send reset instructions

Go to Settings app ‣ Users & Companies ‣ Users, select the user from the list,
and click on Send Password Reset Instructions on the user form. An email is
automatically sent to them with password reset instructions.

Note

The Send Password Reset Instructions button **only** appears if the Odoo
invitation email has already been confirmed by the user. Otherwise, a Re-send
Invitation Email button appears.

Cet email contient toutes les instructions nécessaires pour réinitialiser le
mot de passe, ainsi qu’un lien redirigeant l’utilisateur vers une page de
connexion Odoo.

![Example of an email with a password reset link for an Odoo
account.](../../_images/password-reset-email.png)

### Change user password

Go to Settings app ‣ Users & Companies ‣ Users, and select a user to access
its form. Click on the ⚙️ Actions icon, and select Change Password from, the
resulting drop-down menu. Enter a new password in the New Password column of
the Change Password pop-up window that appears, and confirm the change by
clicking Change Password.

![Change a user's password on Odoo.](../../_images/change-password.png)

Note

This operation only modifies the password of the users locally, and does
**not** affect their odoo.com account.

If the odoo.com password needs to be changed, use the send the password reset
instructions. Odoo.com passwords grant access to the _My Databases_ page, and
other portal features.

After clicking Change Password, the page is redirected to an Odoo login page
where the database can be re-accessed using the new password.

## Multi-sociétés

The Multi Companies field on a user form allows an administrator to provide
access to multiple companies for existing users. To configure a multi-company
environment for a user, navigate to the desired user by going to: Settings app
‣ Users section ‣ Manage users. Then, select the user to open their user form,
and configure with multi-company access.

Under Multi Companies in the Access Rights tab, set the fields labeled Allowed
Companies and Default Company.

The Allowed Companies field can contain multiple companies. These are the
companies the user can access and edit, according to the set access rights.
The Default Company is the company the user defaults to, upon logging in each
time. This field can contain only **one** company.

Avertissement

If multi-company access is not configured correctly, it could lead to
inconsistent multi-company behaviors. Because of this, only experienced Odoo
users should make access rights changes to users for databases with a multi-
company configuration. For technical explanations, refer to the developer
documentation on [Multi-company
Guidelines](../../developer/howtos/company.html).

![View of a user's form emphasizing the multi companies field in
Odoo.](../../_images/multi-companies.png)

Pour plus d'infos

[Sociétés](companies.html)

  * [Changer la langue](users/language.html)
  * [Authentification à deux facteurs](users/2fa.html)
  * [Droits d’accès](users/access_rights.html)
  * [Accès au portail](users/portal.html)
  * [Authentification de connexion Google](users/google.html)
  * [Authentification de connexion Microsoft Azure](users/azure.html)
  * [Se connecter avec LDAP](users/ldap.html)

