# Use dropshipping to ship directly from suppliers to customers

Dropshipping is an order fulfillment strategy that allows sellers to have
items shipped directly from suppliers to customers. Normally, a seller
purchases a product from a supplier, stores it in their inventory, and ships
it to the end customer once an order is placed. With dropshipping, the
supplier is responsible for storing and shipping the item. This benefits the
seller by reducing inventory costs, including the price of operating
warehouses.

## Configure products to be dropshipped

To use dropshipping as a fulfillment strategy, navigate to the Purchase app
and select Configuration ‣ Settings. Under the **Logistics** heading, click
the **Dropshipping** checkbox, and **Save** to finish.

Next, go to the Sales app, click Products ‣ Products and choose an existing
product or select **Create** to configure a new one. On the **Product** page,
make sure that the **Can be Sold** and **Can be Purchased** checkboxes are
enabled.

![Enable the "Can be Sold" and "Can be Purchased" checkboxes on the product
form.](../../../../../_images/sold-purchased-checkboxes.png)

Click on the **Purchase** tab and specify a vendor and the price that they
sell the product for. Multiple vendors can be added, but the vendor at the top
of the list will be the one automatically selected for purchase orders.

![The product form with a vendor specified.](../../../../../_images/product-
vendor-config.png)

Finally, select the **Inventory** tab and enable the **Dropship** checkbox in
the **Routes** section.

![Enable the Dropship option in the product inventory
tab.](../../../../../_images/enable-dropship-route.png)

## Fulfill orders using dropshipping

When a customer completes an online purchase for a dropshipped product, a
sales order will be automatically created with an associated request for
quotation (RFQ) for the supplier. Sales orders can be viewed in the Sales app
by selecting Orders ‣ Orders. Click the **Purchase** smart button at the top
right of a sales order to view the associated RFQ.

<div class="alert alert-info">
<p class="alert-title">
Tip</p><p>Dropship sales orders can also be created manually through the Sales app by
selecting Orders ‣ Orders ‣ Create and adding a product configured for
dropshipping.</p>
</div> ![A dropship sales order with the Purchase smart button in
the top right corner.](../../../../../_images/dropship-sales-order.png)

Once the RFQ is confirmed, it becomes a purchase order and a dropship receipt
is created and linked to it. The receipt can be viewed by clicking the
**Receipt** smart button in the top right corner of the purchase order form.

![A dropship purchase order with the Receipt smart button in the top right
corner.](../../../../../_images/dropship-purchase-order.png)

The dropship receipt will list the supplier in the **Receive From** section
and the customer in the **Destination Location** section. Upon delivery of the
product to the customer, click on the **Validate** button at the top left of
the dropship receipt to confirm the delivered quantity.

![Validate the dropship receipt after
delivery.](../../../../../_images/validate-dropship-receipt.png)

To view all dropship orders, simply navigate to the Inventory **Overview**
dashboard and click the teal **# TO PROCESS** button on the **Dropship** card.

![Click the green button on the Dropship card to view all dropship
orders.](../../../../../_images/view-all-dropship-orders.png)

  *[RFQ]: Request for Quotation

