# Building a Module

Danger

This tutorial is outdated. We recommend reading [Getting
started](getting_started.html) instead.

Warning

This tutorial requires [having installed
Odoo](../../administration/on_premise.html)

## Start/Stop the Odoo server

Odoo uses a client/server architecture in which clients are web browsers
accessing the Odoo server via RPC.

Business logic and extension is generally performed on the server side,
although supporting client features (e.g. new data representation such as
interactive maps) can be added to the client.

In order to start the server, simply invoke the command [odoo-
bin](../reference/cli.html#reference-cmdline) in the shell, adding the full
path to the file if necessary:

    
    
    odoo-bin
    

The server is stopped by hitting `Ctrl-C` twice from the terminal, or by
killing the corresponding OS process.

## Build an Odoo module

Both server and client extensions are packaged as _modules_ which are
optionally loaded in a _database_.

Odoo modules can either add brand new business logic to an Odoo system, or
alter and extend existing business logic: a module can be created to add your
country’s accounting rules to Odoo’s generic accounting support, while the
next module adds support for real-time visualisation of a bus fleet.

Everything in Odoo thus starts and ends with modules.

### Composition of a module

An Odoo module can contain a number of elements:

Business objects

    

Declared as Python classes, these resources are automatically persisted by
Odoo based on their configuration

[Object views](../reference/backend/views.html#reference-views)

    

Definition of business objects UI display

[Data files](../reference/backend/data.html#reference-data)

    

XML or CSV files declaring the model metadata :

  * [views](../reference/backend/views.html#reference-views) or [reports](../reference/backend/reports.html#reference-reports),

  * configuration data (modules parametrization, [security rules](../reference/backend/security.html#reference-security)),

  * demonstration data

  * and more

[Web controllers](../reference/backend/http.html#reference-controllers)

    

Handle requests from web browsers

Static web data

    

Images, CSS or javascript files used by the web interface or website

### Module structure

Each module is a directory within a _module directory_. Module directories are
specified by using the [`--addons-path`](../reference/cli.html#cmdoption-odoo-
bin-addons-path) option.

Tip

most command-line options can also be set using [a configuration
file](../reference/cli.html#reference-cmdline-config)

An Odoo module is declared by its
[manifest](../reference/backend/module.html#reference-module-manifest).

A module is also a [Python
package](http://docs.python.org/2/tutorial/modules.html#packages) with a
`__init__.py` file, containing import instructions for various Python files in
the module.

For instance, if the module has a single `mymodule.py` file `__init__.py`
might contain:

    
    
    from . import mymodule
    

Odoo provides a mechanism to help set up a new module, [odoo-
bin](../reference/cli.html#reference-cmdline-server) has a subcommand
[scaffold](../reference/cli.html#reference-cmdline-scaffold) to create an
empty module:

    
    
    $ odoo-bin scaffold <module name> <where to put it>
    

The command creates a subdirectory for your module, and automatically creates
a bunch of standard files for a module. Most of them simply contain commented
code or XML. The usage of most of those files will be explained along this
tutorial.

Exercise

Module creation

Use the command line above to create an empty module Open Academy, and install
it in Odoo.

### Object-Relational Mapping

A key component of Odoo is the ORM layer. This layer avoids having to write
most SQL by hand and provides extensibility and security services2.

Business objects are declared as Python classes extending `Model` which
integrates them into the automated persistence system.

Models can be configured by setting a number of attributes at their
definition. The most important attribute is `_name` which is required and
defines the name for the model in the Odoo system. Here is a minimally
complete definition of a model:

    
    
    from odoo import models
    class MinimalModel(models.Model):
        _name = 'test.model'
    

### Model fields

Fields are used to define what the model can store and where. Fields are
defined as attributes on the model class:

    
    
    from odoo import models, fields
    
    class LessMinimalModel(models.Model):
        _name = 'test.model2'
    
        name = fields.Char()
    

#### Common Attributes

Much like the model itself, its fields can be configured, by passing
configuration attributes as parameters:

    
    
    name = fields.Char(required=True)
    

Some attributes are available on all fields, here are the most common ones:

`string` (`unicode`, default: field’s name)

    

The label of the field in UI (visible by users).

`required` (`bool`, default: `False`)

    

If `True`, the field can not be empty, it must either have a default value or
always be given a value when creating a record.

`help` (`unicode`, default: `''`)

    

Long-form, provides a help tooltip to users in the UI.

`index` (`bool`, default: `False`)

    

Requests that Odoo create a [database index](https://use-the-index-
luke.com/sql/preface) on the column.

#### Simple fields

There are two broad categories of fields: “simple” fields which are atomic
values stored directly in the model’s table and “relational” fields linking
records (of the same model or of different models).

Example of simple fields are `Boolean`, `Date`, `Char`.

#### Reserved fields

Odoo creates a few fields in all models1. These fields are managed by the
system and shouldn’t be written to. They can be read if useful or necessary:

`id` (`Id`)

    

The unique identifier for a record in its model.

`create_date` (`Datetime`)

    

Creation date of the record.

`create_uid` (`Many2one`)

    

User who created the record.

`write_date` (`Datetime`)

    

Last modification date of the record.

`write_uid` (`Many2one`)

    

user who last modified the record.

#### Special fields

By default, Odoo also requires a `name` field on all models for various
display and search behaviors. The field used for these purposes can be
overridden by setting `_rec_name`.

Exercise

Define a model

Define a new data model _Course_ in the _openacademy_ module. A course has a
title and a description. Courses must have a title.

### Data files

Odoo is a highly data driven system. Although behavior is customized using
[Python](https://python.org) code part of a module’s value is in the data it
sets up when loaded.

Tip

some modules exist solely to add data into Odoo

Module data is declared via [data
files](../reference/backend/data.html#reference-data), XML files with
`<record>` elements. Each `<record>` element creates or updates a database
record.

    
    
    <odoo>
    
            <record model="{model name}" id="{record identifier}">
                <field name="{a field name}">{a value}</field>
            </record>
    
    </odoo>
    

  * `model` is the name of the Odoo model for the record.

  * `id` is an [external identifier](../glossary.html#term-external-identifier), it allows referring to the record (without having to know its in-database identifier).

  * `<field>` elements have a `name` which is the name of the field in the model (e.g. `description`). Their body is the field’s value.

Data files have to be declared in the manifest file to be loaded, they can be
declared in the `'data'` list (always loaded) or in the `'demo'` list (only
loaded in demonstration mode).

Exercise

Define demonstration data

Create demonstration data filling the _Courses_ model with a few demonstration
courses.

Tip

The content of the data files is only loaded when a module is installed or
updated.

After making some changes, do not forget to use [odoo-bin -u
openacademy](../reference/cli.html#reference-cmdline) to save the changes to
your database.

### Actions and Menus

Actions and menus are regular records in database, usually declared through
data files. Actions can be triggered in three ways:

  1. by clicking on menu items (linked to specific actions)

  2. by clicking on buttons in views (if these are connected to actions)

  3. as contextual actions on object

Because menus are somewhat complex to declare there is a `<menuitem>` shortcut
to declare an `ir.ui.menu` and connect it to the corresponding action more
easily.

    
    
    <record model="ir.actions.act_window" id="action_list_ideas">
        <field name="name">Ideas</field>
        <field name="res_model">idea.idea</field>
        <field name="view_mode">tree,form</field>
    </record>
    <menuitem id="menu_ideas" parent="menu_root" name="Ideas" sequence="10"
              action="action_list_ideas"/>
    

Danger

The action must be declared before its corresponding menu in the XML file.

Data files are executed sequentially, the action’s `id` must be present in the
database before the menu can be created.

Exercise

Define new menu entries

Define new menu entries to access courses under the OpenAcademy menu entry. A
user should be able to:

  * display a list of all the courses

  * create/modify courses

## Basic views

Views define the way the records of a model are displayed. Each type of view
represents a mode of visualization (a list of records, a graph of their
aggregation, …). Views can either be requested generically via their type
(e.g. _a list of partners_) or specifically via their id. For generic
requests, the view with the correct type and the lowest priority will be used
(so the lowest-priority view of each type is the default view for that type).

[View inheritance](../reference/backend/views.html#reference-views-
inheritance) allows altering views declared elsewhere (adding or removing
content).

### Generic view declaration

A view is declared as a record of the model `ir.ui.view`. The view type is
implied by the root element of the `arch` field:

    
    
    <record model="ir.ui.view" id="view_id">
        <field name="name">view.name</field>
        <field name="model">object_name</field>
        <field name="priority" eval="16"/>
        <field name="arch" type="xml">
            <!-- view content: <form>, <tree>, <graph>, ... -->
        </field>
    </record>
    

Danger

The view’s content is XML.

The `arch` field must thus be declared as `type="xml"` to be parsed correctly.

### Tree views

Tree views, also called list views, display records in a tabular form.

Their root element is `<tree>`. The simplest form of the tree view simply
lists all the fields to display in the table (each field as a column):

    
    
    <tree string="Idea list">
        <field name="name"/>
        <field name="inventor_id"/>
    </tree>
    

### Form views

Forms are used to create and edit single records.

Their root element is `<form>`. They are composed of high-level structure
elements (groups, notebooks) and interactive elements (buttons and fields):

    
    
    <form string="Idea form">
        <group colspan="4">
            <group colspan="2" col="2">
                <separator string="General stuff" colspan="2"/>
                <field name="name"/>
                <field name="inventor_id"/>
            </group>
    
            <group colspan="2" col="2">
                <separator string="Dates" colspan="2"/>
                <field name="active"/>
                <field name="invent_date" readonly="1"/>
            </group>
    
            <notebook colspan="4">
                <page string="Description">
                    <field name="description" nolabel="1"/>
                </page>
            </notebook>
    
            <field name="state"/>
        </group>
    </form>
    

Exercise

Customise form view using XML

Create your own form view for the Course object. Data displayed should be: the
name and the description of the course.

Exercise

Notebooks

In the Course form view, put the description field under a tab, such that it
will be easier to add other tabs later, containing additional information.

Form views can also use plain HTML for more flexible layouts:

    
    
    <form string="Idea Form">
        <header>
            <button string="Confirm" type="object" name="action_confirm"
                    states="draft" class="oe_highlight" />
            <button string="Mark as done" type="object" name="action_done"
                    states="confirmed" class="oe_highlight"/>
            <button string="Reset to draft" type="object" name="action_draft"
                    states="confirmed,done" />
            <field name="state" widget="statusbar"/>
        </header>
        <sheet>
            <div class="oe_title">
                <label for="name" class="oe_edit_only" string="Idea Name" />
                <h1><field name="name" /></h1>
            </div>
            <separator string="General" colspan="2" />
            <group colspan="2" col="2">
                <field name="description" placeholder="Idea description..." />
            </group>
        </sheet>
    </form>
    

### Search views

Search views customize the search field associated with the list view (and
other aggregated views). Their root element is `<search>` and they’re composed
of fields defining which fields can be searched on:

    
    
    <search>
        <field name="name"/>
        <field name="inventor_id"/>
    </search>
    

If no search view exists for the model, Odoo generates one which only allows
searching on the `name` field.

Exercise

Search courses

Allow searching for courses based on their title or their description.

## Relations between models

A record from a model may be related to a record from another model. For
instance, a sale order record is related to a client record that contains the
client data; it is also related to its sale order line records.

Exercise

Create a session model

For the module Open Academy, we consider a model for _sessions_ : a session is
an occurrence of a course taught at a given time for a given audience.

Create a model for _sessions_. A session has a name, a start date, a duration
and a number of seats. Add an action and a menu item to display them. Make the
new model visible via a menu item.

### Relational fields

Relational fields link records, either of the same model (hierarchies) or
between different models.

Relational field types are:

`Many2one(other_model, ondelete='set null')`

    

A simple link to an other object:

    
    
    print(foo.other_id.name)
    

See also

[foreign keys](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/12/static/tutorial-fk.html)

`One2many(other_model, related_field)`

    

A virtual relationship, inverse of a `Many2one`. A `One2many` behaves as a
container of records, accessing it results in a (possibly empty) set of
records:

    
    
    for other in foo.other_ids:
        print(other.name)
    

Danger

Because a `One2many` is a virtual relationship, there _must_ be a `Many2one`
field in the `_other_model_`, and its name _must_ be `_related_field_`

`Many2many(other_model)`

    

Bidirectional multiple relationship, any record on one side can be related to
any number of records on the other side. Behaves as a container of records,
accessing it also results in a possibly empty set of records:

    
    
    for other in foo.other_ids:
        print(other.name)
    

Exercise

Many2one relations

Using a many2one, modify the _Course_ and _Session_ models to reflect their
relation with other models:

  * A course has a _responsible_ user; the value of that field is a record of the built-in model `res.users`.

  * A session has an _instructor_ ; the value of that field is a record of the built-in model `res.partner`.

  * A session is related to a _course_ ; the value of that field is a record of the model `openacademy.course` and is required.

  * Adapt the views.

Exercise

Inverse one2many relations

Using the inverse relational field one2many, modify the models to reflect the
relation between courses and sessions.

Exercise

Multiple many2many relations

Using the relational field many2many, modify the _Session_ model to relate
every session to a set of _attendees_. Attendees will be represented by
partner records, so we will relate to the built-in model `res.partner`. Adapt
the views accordingly.

## Inheritance

### Model inheritance

Odoo provides two _inheritance_ mechanisms to extend an existing model in a
modular way.

The first inheritance mechanism allows a module to modify the behavior of a
model defined in another module:

  * add fields to a model,

  * override the definition of fields on a model,

  * add constraints to a model,

  * add methods to a model,

  * override existing methods on a model.

The second inheritance mechanism (delegation) allows to link every record of a
model to a record in a parent model, and provides transparent access to the
fields of the parent record.

![../../_images/inheritance_methods.png](../../_images/inheritance_methods.png)

See also

  * `_inherit`

  * `_inherits`

### View inheritance

Instead of modifying existing views in place (by overwriting them), Odoo
provides view inheritance where children “extension” views are applied on top
of root views, and can add or remove content from their parent.

An extension view references its parent using the `inherit_id` field, and
instead of a single view its `arch` field is composed of any number of `xpath`
elements selecting and altering the content of their parent view:

    
    
    <!-- improved idea categories list -->
    <record id="idea_category_list2" model="ir.ui.view">
        <field name="name">id.category.list2</field>
        <field name="model">idea.category</field>
        <field name="inherit_id" ref="id_category_list"/>
        <field name="arch" type="xml">
            <!-- find field description and add the field
                 idea_ids after it -->
            <xpath expr="//field[@name='description']" position="after">
              <field name="idea_ids" string="Number of ideas"/>
            </xpath>
        </field>
    </record>
    

`expr`

    

An [XPath](https://w3.org/TR/xpath) expression selecting a single element in
the parent view. Raises an error if it matches no element or more than one

`position`

    

Operation to apply to the matched element:

`inside`

    

appends `xpath`’s body at the end of the matched element

`replace`

    

replaces the matched element with the `xpath`’s body, replacing any `$0` node
occurrence in the new body with the original element

`before`

    

inserts the `xpath`’s body as a sibling before the matched element

`after`

    

inserts the `xpaths`’s body as a sibling after the matched element

`attributes`

    

alters the attributes of the matched element using special `attribute`
elements in the `xpath`’s body

Tip

When matching a single element, the `position` attribute can be set directly
on the element to be found. Both inheritances below will give the same result.

>
>     <xpath expr="//field[@name='description']" position="after">
>         <field name="idea_ids" />
>     </xpath>
>  
>     <field name="description" position="after">
>         <field name="idea_ids" />
>     </field>
>  

Exercise

Alter existing content

  * Using model inheritance, modify the existing _Partner_ model to add an `instructor` boolean field, and a many2many field that corresponds to the session-partner relation

  * Using view inheritance, display this fields in the partner form view

#### Domains

In Odoo, [Search domains](../reference/backend/orm.html#reference-orm-domains)
are values that encode conditions on records. A domain is a list of criteria
used to select a subset of a model’s records. Each criteria is a triple with a
field name, an operator and a value.

For instance, when used on the _Product_ model the following domain selects
all _services_ with a unit price over _1000_ :

    
    
    [('product_type', '=', 'service'), ('unit_price', '>', 1000)]
    

By default criteria are combined with an implicit AND. The logical operators
`&` (AND), `|` (OR) and `!` (NOT) can be used to explicitly combine criteria.
They are used in prefix position (the operator is inserted before its
arguments rather than between). For instance to select products “which are
services _OR_ have a unit price which is _NOT_ between 1000 and 2000”:

    
    
    ['|',
        ('product_type', '=', 'service'),
        '!', '&',
            ('unit_price', '>=', 1000),
            ('unit_price', '<', 2000)]
    

A `domain` parameter can be added to relational fields to limit valid records
for the relation when trying to select records in the client interface.

Exercise

Domains on relational fields

When selecting the instructor for a _Session_ , only instructors (partners
with `instructor` set to `True`) should be visible.

Exercise

More complex domains

Create new partner categories _Teacher / Level 1_ and _Teacher / Level 2_. The
instructor for a session can be either an instructor or a teacher (of any
level).

## Computed fields and default values

So far fields have been stored directly in and retrieved directly from the
database. Fields can also be _computed_. In that case, the field’s value is
not retrieved from the database but computed on-the-fly by calling a method of
the model.

To create a computed field, create a field and set its attribute `compute` to
the name of a method. The computation method should simply set the value of
the field to compute on every record in `self`.

Danger

`self` is a collection

The object `self` is a _recordset_ , i.e., an ordered collection of records.
It supports the standard Python operations on collections, like `len(self)`
and `iter(self)`, plus extra set operations like `recs1 + recs2`.

Iterating over `self` gives the records one by one, where each record is
itself a collection of size 1. You can access/assign fields on single records
by using the dot notation, like `record.name`.

    
    
    import random
    from odoo import models, fields, api
    
    class ComputedModel(models.Model):
        _name = 'test.computed'
    
        name = fields.Char(compute='_compute_name')
    
        def _compute_name(self):
            for record in self:
                record.name = str(random.randint(1, 1e6))
    

### Dependencies

The value of a computed field usually depends on the values of other fields on
the computed record. The ORM expects the developer to specify those
dependencies on the compute method with the decorator `depends()`. The given
dependencies are used by the ORM to trigger the recomputation of the field
whenever some of its dependencies have been modified:

    
    
    from odoo import models, fields, api
    
    class ComputedModel(models.Model):
        _name = 'test.computed'
    
        name = fields.Char(compute='_compute_name')
        value = fields.Integer()
    
        @api.depends('value')
        def _compute_name(self):
            for record in self:
                record.name = "Record with value %s" % record.value
    

Exercise

Computed fields

  * Add the percentage of taken seats to the _Session_ model

  * Display that field in the tree and form views

  * Display the field as a progress bar

### Default values

Any field can be given a default value. In the field definition, add the
option `default=X` where `X` is either a Python literal value (boolean,
integer, float, string), or a function taking a recordset and returning a
value:

    
    
    name = fields.Char(default="Unknown")
    user_id = fields.Many2one('res.users', default=lambda self: self.env.user)
    

Note

The object `self.env` gives access to request parameters and other useful
things:

>   * `self.env.cr` or `self._cr` is the database _cursor_ object; it is used
> for querying the database
>
>   * `self.env.uid` or `self._uid` is the current user’s database id
>
>   * `self.env.user` is the current user’s record
>
>   * `self.env.context` or `self._context` is the context dictionary
>
>   * `self.env.ref(xml_id)` returns the record corresponding to an XML id
>
>   * `self.env[model_name]` returns an instance of the given model
>
>

Exercise

Active objects – Default values

  * Define the start_date default value as today (see `Date`).

  * Add a field `active` in the class Session, and set sessions as active by default.

## Onchange

The “onchange” mechanism provides a way for the client interface to update a
form whenever the user has filled in a value in a field, without saving
anything to the database.

For instance, suppose a model has three fields `amount`, `unit_price` and
`price`, and you want to update the price on the form when any of the other
fields is modified. To achieve this, define a method where `self` represents
the record in the form view, and decorate it with `onchange()` to specify on
which field it has to be triggered. Any change you make on `self` will be
reflected on the form.

    
    
    <!-- content of form view -->
    <field name="amount"/>
    <field name="unit_price"/>
    <field name="price" readonly="1"/>
    
    
    
    # onchange handler
    @api.onchange('amount', 'unit_price')
    def _onchange_price(self):
        # set auto-changing field
        self.price = self.amount * self.unit_price
        # Can optionally return a warning and domains
        return {
            'warning': {
                'title': "Something bad happened",
                'message': "It was very bad indeed",
            }
        }
    

For computed fields, valued `onchange` behavior is built-in as can be seen by
playing with the _Session_ form: change the number of seats or participants,
and the `taken_seats` progressbar is automatically updated.

Exercise

Warning

Add an explicit onchange to warn about invalid values, like a negative number
of seats, or more participants than seats.

## Model constraints

Odoo provides two ways to set up automatically verified invariants: `Python
constraints` and `SQL constraints`.

A Python constraint is defined as a method decorated with `constrains()`, and
invoked on a recordset. The decorator specifies which fields are involved in
the constraint, so that the constraint is automatically evaluated when one of
them is modified. The method is expected to raise an exception if its
invariant is not satisfied:

    
    
    from odoo.exceptions import ValidationError
    
    @api.constrains('age')
    def _check_something(self):
        for record in self:
            if record.age > 20:
                raise ValidationError("Your record is too old: %s" % record.age)
        # all records passed the test, don't return anything
    

Exercise

Add Python constraints

Add a constraint that checks that the instructor is not present in the
attendees of his/her own session.

SQL constraints are defined through the model attribute `_sql_constraints`.
The latter is assigned to a list of triples of strings `(name, sql_definition,
message)`, where `name` is a valid SQL constraint name, `sql_definition` is a
[table_constraint](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/12/static/ddl-
constraints.html) expression, and `message` is the error message.

Exercise

Add SQL constraints

With the help of [PostgreSQL’s
documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/12/static/ddl-constraints.html)
, add the following constraints:

  1. CHECK that the course description and the course title are different

  2. Make the Course’s name UNIQUE

Exercise

Exercise 6 - Add a duplicate option

Since we added a constraint for the Course name uniqueness, it is not possible
to use the “duplicate” function anymore (Form ‣ Duplicate).

Re-implement your own “copy” method which allows to duplicate the Course
object, changing the original name into “Copy of [original name]”.

## Advanced Views

### Tree views

Tree views can take supplementary attributes to further customize their
behavior:

`decoration-{$name}`

    

allow changing the style of a row’s text based on the corresponding record’s
attributes.

Values are Python expressions. For each record, the expression is evaluated
with the record’s attributes as context values and if `true`, the
corresponding style is applied to the row. Here are some of the other values
available in the context:

  * `uid`: the id of the current user,

  * `today`: the current local date as a string of the form `YYYY-MM-DD`,

  * `now`: same as `today` with the addition of the current time. This value is formatted as `YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss`.

`{$name}` can be `bf` (`font-weight: bold`), `it` (`font-style: italic`), or
any [bootstrap contextual
color](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/3.3/components/#available-variations)
(`danger`, `info`, `muted`, `primary`, `success` or `warning`).

    
    
    <tree string="Idea Categories" decoration-info="state=='draft'"
        decoration-danger="state=='trashed'">
        <field name="name"/>
        <field name="state"/>
    </tree>
    

`editable`

    

Either `"top"` or `"bottom"`. Makes the tree view editable in-place (rather
than having to go through the form view), the value is the position where new
rows appear.

Exercise

List coloring

Modify the Session tree view in such a way that sessions lasting less than 5
days are colored blue, and the ones lasting more than 15 days are colored red.

### Calendars

Displays records as calendar events. Their root element is `<calendar>` and
their most common attributes are:

`color`

    

The name of the field used for _color segmentation_. Colors are automatically
distributed to events, but events in the same color segment (records which
have the same value for their `@color` field) will be given the same color.

`date_start`

    

record’s field holding the start date/time for the event

`date_stop` (optional)

    

record’s field holding the end date/time for the event

`string`

    

record’s field to define the label for each calendar event

    
    
    <calendar string="Ideas" date_start="invent_date" color="inventor_id">
        <field name="name"/>
    </calendar>
    

Exercise

Calendar view

Add a Calendar view to the _Session_ model enabling the user to view the
events associated to the Open Academy.

### Search views

Search view `<field>` elements can have a `@filter_domain` that overrides the
domain generated for searching on the given field. In the given domain, `self`
represents the value entered by the user. In the example below, it is used to
search on both fields `name` and `description`.

Search views can also contain `<filter>` elements, which act as toggles for
predefined searches. Filters must have one of the following attributes:

`domain`

    

add the given domain to the current search

`context`

    

add some context to the current search; use the key `group_by` to group
results on the given field name

    
    
    <search string="Ideas">
        <field name="name"/>
        <field name="description" string="Name and description"
               filter_domain="['|', ('name', 'ilike', self), ('description', 'ilike', self)]"/>
        <field name="inventor_id"/>
        <field name="country_id" widget="selection"/>
    
        <filter name="my_ideas" string="My Ideas"
                domain="[('inventor_id', '=', uid)]"/>
        <group string="Group By">
            <filter name="group_by_inventor" string="Inventor"
                    context="{'group_by': 'inventor_id'}"/>
        </group>
    </search>
    

To use a non-default search view in an action, it should be linked using the
`search_view_id` field of the action record.

The action can also set default values for search fields through its `context`
field: context keys of the form `search_default__field_name_` will initialize
_field_name_ with the provided value. Search filters must have an optional
`@name` to have a default and behave as booleans (they can only be enabled by
default).

Exercise

Search views

  1. Add a button to filter the courses for which the current user is the responsible in the course search view. Make it selected by default.

  2. Add a button to group courses by responsible user.

### Gantt

Warning

The gantt view requires the web_gantt module which is present in the
[enterprise edition](../../administration.html#install-editions) version.

Horizontal bar charts typically used to show project planning and advancement,
their root element is `<gantt>`.

    
    
    <gantt string="Ideas"
           date_start="invent_date"
           date_stop="date_finished"
           progress="progress"
           default_group_by="inventor_id" />
    

Exercise

Gantt charts

Add a Gantt Chart enabling the user to view the sessions scheduling linked to
the Open Academy module. The sessions should be grouped by instructor.

### Graph views

Graph views allow aggregated overview and analysis of models, their root
element is `<graph>`.

Note

Pivot views (element `<pivot>`) a multidimensional table, allows the selection
of filers and dimensions to get the right aggregated dataset before moving to
a more graphical overview. The pivot view shares the same content definition
as graph views.

Graph views have 4 display modes, the default mode is selected using the
`@type` attribute.

Bar (default)

    

a bar chart, the first dimension is used to define groups on the horizontal
axis, other dimensions define aggregated bars within each group.

By default bars are side-by-side, they can be stacked by using
`@stacked="True"` on the `<graph>`

Line

    

2-dimensional line chart

Pie

    

2-dimensional pie

Graph views contain `<field>` with a mandatory `@type` attribute taking the
values:

`row` (default)

    

the field should be aggregated by default

`measure`

    

the field should be aggregated rather than grouped on

    
    
    <graph string="Total idea score by Inventor">
        <field name="inventor_id"/>
        <field name="score" type="measure"/>
    </graph>
    

Warning

Graph views perform aggregations on database values, they do not work with
non-stored computed fields.

Exercise

Graph view

Add a Graph view in the Session object that displays, for each course, the
number of attendees under the form of a bar chart.

### Kanban

Used to organize tasks, production processes, etc… their root element is
`<kanban>`.

A kanban view shows a set of cards possibly grouped in columns. Each card
represents a record, and each column the values of an aggregation field.

For instance, project tasks may be organized by stage (each column is a
stage), or by responsible (each column is a user), and so on.

Kanban views define the structure of each card as a mix of form elements
(including basic HTML) and [QWeb
Templates](../reference/frontend/qweb.html#reference-qweb).

Exercise

Kanban view

Add a Kanban view that displays sessions grouped by course (columns are thus
courses).

## Security

Access control mechanisms must be configured to achieve a coherent security
policy.

### Group-based access control mechanisms

Groups are created as normal records on the model `res.groups`, and granted
menu access via menu definitions. However even without a menu, objects may
still be accessible indirectly, so actual object-level permissions (read,
write, create, unlink) must be defined for groups. They are usually inserted
via CSV files inside modules. It is also possible to restrict access to
specific fields on a view or object using the field’s groups attribute.

### Access rights

Access rights are defined as records of the model `ir.model.access`. Each
access right is associated to a model, a group (or no group for global
access), and a set of permissions: read, write, create, unlink. Such access
rights are usually created by a CSV file named after its model:
`ir.model.access.csv`.

    
    
    id,name,model_id/id,group_id/id,perm_read,perm_write,perm_create,perm_unlink
    access_idea_idea,idea.idea,model_idea_idea,base.group_user,1,1,1,0
    access_idea_vote,idea.vote,model_idea_vote,base.group_user,1,1,1,0
    

Exercise

Add access control through the Odoo interface

Create a new user “John Smith”. Then create a group “OpenAcademy / Session
Read” with read access to the _Session_ model.

Exercise

Add access control through data files in your module

Using data files,

  * Create a group _OpenAcademy / Manager_ with full access to all OpenAcademy models

  * Make _Session_ and _Course_ readable by all users

### Record rules

A record rule restricts the access rights to a subset of records of the given
model. A rule is a record of the model `ir.rule`, and is associated to a
model, a number of groups (many2many field), permissions to which the
restriction applies, and a domain. The domain specifies to which records the
access rights are limited.

Here is an example of a rule that prevents the deletion of leads that are not
in state `cancel`. Notice that the value of the field `groups` must follow the
same convention as the method `write()` of the ORM.

    
    
    <record id="delete_cancelled_only" model="ir.rule">
        <field name="name">Only cancelled leads may be deleted</field>
        <field name="model_id" ref="crm.model_crm_lead"/>
        <field name="groups" eval="[(4, ref('sales_team.group_sale_manager'))]"/>
        <field name="perm_read" eval="0"/>
        <field name="perm_write" eval="0"/>
        <field name="perm_create" eval="0"/>
        <field name="perm_unlink" eval="1" />
        <field name="domain_force">[('state','=','cancel')]</field>
    </record>
    

Exercise

Record rule

Add a record rule for the model Course and the group “OpenAcademy / Manager”,
that restricts `write` and `unlink` accesses to the responsible of a course.
If a course has no responsible, all users of the group must be able to modify
it.

## Wizards

Wizards describe interactive sessions with the user (or dialog boxes) through
dynamic forms. A wizard is simply a model that extends the class
`TransientModel` instead of `Model`. The class `TransientModel` extends
`Model` and reuse all its existing mechanisms, with the following
particularities:

  * Wizard records are not meant to be persistent; they are automatically deleted from the database after a certain time. This is why they are called _transient_.

  * Wizard records may refer to regular records or wizard records through relational fields(many2one or many2many), but regular records _cannot_ refer to wizard records through a many2one field.

We want to create a wizard that allow users to create attendees for a
particular session, or for a list of sessions at once.

Exercise

Define the wizard

Create a wizard model with a many2one relationship with the _Session_ model
and a many2many relationship with the _Partner_ model.

### Launching wizards

Wizards are simply window actions with a `target` field set to the value
`new`, which opens the view (usually a form) in a separate dialog. The action
may be triggered via a menu item, but is more generally triggered by a button.

An other way to launch wizards is through the Action menu of a tree or form
view. This is done through the `binding_model_id` field of the action. Setting
this field will make the action appear on the views of the model the action is
“bound” to.

    
    
    <record id="launch_the_wizard" model="ir.actions.act_window">
        <field name="name">Launch the Wizard</field>
        <field name="res_model">wizard.model.name</field>
        <field name="view_mode">form</field>
        <field name="target">new</field>
        <field name="binding_model_id" ref="model_context_model_ref"/>
    </record>
    

Tip

While wizards use regular views and buttons, normally clicking any button in a
form would first save the form then close the dialog. Because this is often
undesirable in wizards, a special attribute `special="cancel"` is available
which immediately closes the wizard without saving the form.

Exercise

Launch the wizard

  1. Define a form view for the wizard.

  2. Add the action to launch it in the context of the _Session_ model.

  3. Define a default value for the session field in the wizard; use the context parameter `self._context` to retrieve the current session.

Exercise

Register attendees

Add buttons to the wizard, and implement the corresponding method for adding
the attendees to the given session.

Exercise

Register attendees to multiple sessions

Modify the wizard model so that attendees can be registered to multiple
sessions.

## Internationalization

Each module can provide its own translations within the i18n directory, by
having files named LANG.po where LANG is the locale code for the language, or
the language and country combination when they differ (e.g. pt.po or
pt_BR.po). Translations will be loaded automatically by Odoo for all enabled
languages. Developers always use English when creating a module, then export
the module terms using Odoo’s gettext POT export feature (Settings ‣
Translations ‣ Import/Export ‣ Export Translation without specifying a
language), to create the module template POT file, and then derive the
translated PO files. Many IDE’s have plugins or modes for editing and merging
PO/POT files.

Tip

The Portable Object files generated by Odoo are published on
[Transifex](https://www.transifex.com/odoo/public/), making it easy to
translate the software.

    
    
    |- idea/ # The module directory
       |- i18n/ # Translation files
          | - idea.pot # Translation Template (exported from Odoo)
          | - fr.po # French translation
          | - pt_BR.po # Brazilian Portuguese translation
          | (...)
    

Tip

By default Odoo’s POT export only extracts labels inside XML files or inside
field definitions in Python code, but any Python string can be translated this
way by surrounding it with the function `odoo._()` (e.g. `_("Label")`)

Exercise

Translate a module

Choose a second language for your Odoo installation. Translate your module
using the facilities provided by Odoo.

## Reporting

### Printed reports

Odoo uses a report engine based on [QWeb
Templates](../reference/frontend/qweb.html#reference-qweb), [Twitter
Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com) and
[Wkhtmltopdf](https://wkhtmltopdf.org).

A report is a combination two elements:

  * an `ir.actions.report` which configures various basic parameters for the report (default type, whether the report should be saved to the database after generation,…)
    
        <record id="account_invoices" model="ir.actions.report">
        <field name="name">Invoices</field>
        <field name="model">account.invoice</field>
        <field name="report_type">qweb-pdf</field>
        <field name="report_name">account.report_invoice</field>
        <field name="report_file">account.report_invoice</field>
        <field name="attachment_use" eval="True"/>
        <field name="attachment">(object.state in ('open','paid')) and
            ('INV'+(object.number or '').replace('/','')+'.pdf')</field>
        <field name="binding_model_id" ref="model_account_invoice"/>
        <field name="binding_type">report</field>
    </record>
    

Tip

Because it largerly a standard action, as with Wizards it is generally useful
to add the report as a _contextual item_ on the tree and / or form views of
the model being reported on via the `binding_model_id` field.

Here we are also using `binding_type` in order for the report to be in the
_report_ contextual menu rather than the _action_ one. There is no technical
difference but putting elements in the right place helps users.

  * A standard [QWeb view](../reference/backend/views.html#reference-views-qweb) for the actual report:
    
        <t t-call="web.html_container">
        <t t-foreach="docs" t-as="o">
            <t t-call="web.external_layout">
                <div class="page">
                    <h2>Report title</h2>
                </div>
            </t>
        </t>
    </t>
    

the standard rendering context provides a number of elements, the most
important being:

`docs`

    

the records for which the report is printed

`user`

    

the user printing the report

Because reports are standard web pages, they are available through a URL and
output parameters can be manipulated through this URL, for instance the HTML
version of the _Invoice_ report is available through
<http://localhost:8069/report/html/account.report_invoice/1> (if `account` is
installed) and the PDF version through
<http://localhost:8069/report/pdf/account.report_invoice/1>.

Danger

If it appears that your PDF report is missing the styles (i.e. the text
appears but the style/layout is different from the html version), probably
your [wkhtmltopdf](https://wkhtmltopdf.org) process cannot reach your web
server to download them.

If you check your server logs and see that the CSS styles are not being
downloaded when generating a PDF report, most surely this is the problem.

The [wkhtmltopdf](https://wkhtmltopdf.org) process will use the `web.base.url`
system parameter as the _root path_ to all linked files, but this parameter is
automatically updated each time the Administrator is logged in. If your server
resides behind some kind of proxy, that could not be reachable. You can fix
this by adding one of these system parameters:

  * `report.url`, pointing to an URL reachable from your server (probably `http://localhost:8069` or something similar). It will be used for this particular purpose only.

  * `web.base.url.freeze`, when set to `True`, will stop the automatic updates to `web.base.url`.

Exercise

Create a report for the Session model

For each session, it should display session’s name, its start and end, and
list the session’s attendees.

### Dashboards

Exercise

Define a Dashboard

Define a dashboard containing the graph view you created, the sessions
calendar view and a list view of the courses (switchable to a form view). This
dashboard should be available through a menuitem in the menu, and
automatically displayed in the web client when the OpenAcademy main menu is
selected.

1

    

it is possible to [disable the automatic creation of some
fields](../reference/backend/orm.html#reference-fields-automatic-log-access)

2

    

writing raw SQL queries is possible, but requires care as it bypasses all Odoo
authentication and security mechanisms.

  *[ORM]: Object-Relational Mapping
  *[SQL]: Structured Query Language

