# Odoo.com accounts

This documentation is dedicated to edits made to an Odoo.com account. The
following processes describe how to delete an Odoo.com account, and how to
change the password on an Odoo.com account.

## Delete Odoo.com account

To delete an Odoo.com account, start by clicking the profile icon in the
upper-right corner (represented by the username and icon) to reveal a drop-
down menu. From the drop-down menu, select My Odoo.com account, which reveals
the user portal.

From the user portal, the delete option can be accessed by going to My Account
‣ Edit Security Settings ‣ Delete Account. It can also be accessed by going to
<https://www.odoo.com/my/home>.

Danger

Deleting an Odoo account is irreversible. Be careful performing this action,
as the Odoo.com account is **not** retrievable once deleted.

Upon clicking the Delete Account button, a pop-up window appears, requesting
confirmation for the account deletion.

![Clicking on the Delete Account button will populate a window verifying the
change.](../_images/delete-account.png)

To confirm the deletion, enter the Password and the Login for the account
being deleted. Then, click the Delete Account button to confirm the deletion.

## Odoo.com account password change

To change an Odoo.com account password, first login into the Odoo.com user
account from the Odoo.com login page. After logging-in, go to the upper-right
corner of the screen, and click the ▼ (down arrow) icon next to the profile
icon. Then, select My Account, and a portal dashboard appears.

To change the Odoo.com password, click on the Edit Security Settings link,
below the Account Security section. Next, make the necessary changes by typing
in the current Password, New Password, and verify the new password. Lastly,
click on Change Password to complete the password change.

Note

If a customer would like to change the login, contact Odoo support
[here](https://www.odoo.com/help).

Note

Passwords for Odoo.com users and portal users remain separate, even if the
same email address is used.

## Add two-factor authentication

To add two-factor authentication, login into the Odoo.com user account from
the Odoo.com login page. After logging-in, go to the upper-right corner of the
screen, and click the ▼ (down arrow) icon next to the profile icon. Then,
select My Account, and a portal dashboard appears.

If the user would like to turn on two-factor authentication (2FA) for Odoo.com
access, click on the Edit Security Settings link below the Account Security
section.

Click on Enable two-factor authentication to turn on 2FA. Then, confirm the
current password in the Password field. Next, click on Confirm Password.
Following that, activate 2FA in a 2FA app (Google Authenticator, Authy, etc.),
by scanning the QR code or entering a Verification Code.

Finally, click on Enable two-factor authentication to complete the setup.

Note

Under My Account Odoo.com users can also access the following:

  * My Partner dashboard

  * My In-App Services

  * My Apps Dashboard

  *[2FA]: two-factor authentication

