# Measure quality check

In Konvergo ERP _Quality_ , a _Measure_ check is one of the quality check types that
can be selected when creating a new quality check or quality control point
(QCP). _Measure_ checks prompt users to measure a certain aspect of a product
and record the measurement in Konvergo ERP. For the quality check to pass, the
recorded measurement must be within a certain _tolerance_ of a _norm_ value.

## Create a Measure quality check

There are two distinct ways that _Measure_ quality checks can be created. A
single check can be manually created. Alternatively, a QCP can be configured
that automatically creates checks at a predetermined interval.

This documentation only details the configuration options that are unique to
_Measure_ quality checks and QCPs. For a full overview of all the
configuration options available when creating a single check or a QCP, see the
documentation on [quality
checks](../quality_management/quality_checks#quality-quality-management-
quality-checks) and [quality control
points](../quality_management/quality_control_points#quality-quality-
management-quality-control-points).

### Quality check

To create a single _Measure_ quality check, navigate to Quality â€£ Quality
Control â€£ Quality Checks, and click **New**. Fill out the new quality check
form as follows:

  * In the **Type** drop-down field, select the **Measure** quality check type.

  * In the **Team** drop-down field, select the quality team responsible for managing the check.

  * In the **Instructions** text field of the **Notes** tab, enter instructions for how the picture should be taken.

![A quality check form configured for a Measure quality
check.](../../../../_images/measure-check-form-1.png)

### Quality control point (QCP)

To create a QCP that generates _Measure_ quality checks automatically,
navigate to Quality â€£ Quality Control â€£ Control Points, and click **New**.
Fill out the new QCP form as follows:

  * In the **Type** drop-down field, select the **Measure** quality check type. Doing so causes two new fields to appear: **Norm** and **Tolerance**.

    * Use the first text-entry field of the **Norm** field to record the ideal measurement that the product should conform to. Use the second text-entry field to specify the unit of measurement that should be used.

    * The **Tolerance** field features two sub-fields: **from** and **to**. Use the **from** field to specify the minimum acceptable measurement, and the **to** field to specify the maximum acceptable measurement.

  * In the **Team** drop-down field, select the quality team responsible for managing the checks created by the QCP.

  * In the **Instructions** text field, enter instructions for how the measurement should be taken.

![A QCP form configured to create Measure quality
checks.](../../../../_images/measure-check-qcp-form.png)

## Process a Measure quality check

Once created, there are multiple ways that _Measure_ quality checks can be
processed. If a quality check is assigned to a specific inventory,
manufacturing, or work order, the check can be processed on the order itself.
Alternatively, a check can be processed from the checkâ€™s page.

### From the checkâ€™s page

To process a _Measure_ quality check from the checkâ€™s page, begin by
navigating to Quality â€£ Quality Control â€£ Quality Checks, and select a quality
check. Follow the **Instructions** for how to take the measurement.

After taking the measurement, record the value in the **Measure** field on the
quality check form. To manually pass or fail the check, click **Pass** or
**Fail** at the top-left corner of the check.

Alternatively, if the quality check is assigned to a QCP for which _norm_ and
_tolerance_ values have been specified, click **Measure** at the top-left
corner of the check instead. Doing so automatically marks the check as
_Passed_ if the recorded value is within the specified _tolerance_ , or
_Failed_ if the value is outside of it.

### On an order

To process a _Measure_ quality check on an order, select a manufacturing order
or inventory order (receipt, delivery, return, etc.), for which a check is
required. Manufacturing orders can be selected by navigating to Manufacturing
â€£ Operations â€£ Manufacturing Orders, and clicking on an order. Inventory
orders can be selected by navigating to Inventory, clicking the **# To
Process** button on an operation card, and selecting an order.

On the selected manufacturing or inventory order, a purple **Quality Checks**
button appears at the top of the page. Click the button to open the **Quality
Check** pop-up window, which shows all of the quality checks required for that
order.

To process a _Measure_ quality check, measure the product as instructed, then
enter the value in the **Measure** field on the pop-up window. Finally, click
**Validate** to register the recorded value.

![A Measure quality check pop-up window on a manufacturing or inventory
order.](../../../../_images/measure-check-pop-up.png)

If the value entered is within the range specified in the **Tolerance**
section of the QCP, the quality check passes and the pop-up window closes. The
rest of the manufacturing or inventory order can then be processed as usual.

However, if the value entered is outside of the specified range, a new pop-up
window appears, titled **Quality Check Failed**. The body of the pop-up shows
a warning message that states, **You measured # units and it should be between
# units and # units.** , as well as the instructions entered in the **Message
If Failure** tab of the QCP. At the bottom of the pop-up, two buttons appear:
**Correct Measure** and **Confirm Measure**.

![The "Quality Check Failed" pop-up window.](../../../../_images/measure-
check-failed.png)

If the measurement was not entered correctly and should be changed, select
**Correct Measure**. Doing so re-opens the **Quality Check** pop-up window.
Enter the corrected measurement in the **Measure** field, and then click
**Validate** to complete the check.

If the measurement was entered correctly, click **Confirm Measure** instead,
and the quality check fails. Follow any instructions that were listed on the
**Quality Check Failed** pop-up window.

If a quality alert must be created, click the **Quality Alert** button that
appears at the top of the manufacturing or inventory order after the check
fails. Clicking **Quality Alert** opens a quality alert form on a new page.

For a complete guide on how to fill out the quality alert form, view the
documentation on [quality
alerts](../quality_management/quality_alerts#quality-quality-management-
quality-alerts).

### On a work order

When configuring a QCP that is triggered during manufacturing, a specific work
order can also be specified in the **Work Order Operation** field on the QCP
form. If a work order is specified, a _Measure_ quality check is created for
that specific work order, rather than the manufacturing order as a whole.

_Measure_ quality checks created for work orders must be processed from the
tablet view. To do so, begin by navigating to Manufacturing â€£ Operations â€£
Manufacturing Orders. Select a manufacturing order that includes a work order
for which a quality check is required. Open the tablet view for that work
order by selecting the **Work Orders** tab, and then clicking the **ðŸ“±
(tablet)** button on the orderâ€™s line.

With tablet view open, complete the steps listed on the left side of the
screen until the _Measure_ quality check step is reached. Upon reaching the
check, the instructions for how to take the measurement appear at the top of
the screen. Enter the measured value in the **Measure** field above the
instructions, and then click **Validate**.

![A Measure quality check in the Manufacturing tablet
view.](../../../../_images/measure-tablet-view.png)

If the measurement entered is within the range specified in the **Tolerance**
section of the QCP, the quality check passes and the tablet view moves on to
the next step of the work order. However, if the measurement entered is
outside of the specified range, a pop-up window appears, titled **Quality
Check Failed**.

The body of the **Quality Check Failed** pop-up window shows a warning message
that states, **You measured # units and it should be between # units and #
units.** , as well as the instructions entered in the **Message If Failure**
tab of the QCP. At the bottom of the pop-up, two buttons appear: **Correct
Measure** and **Confirm Measure**.

![The "Quality Check Failed" pop-up window.](../../../../_images/measure-
check-failed.png)

If the measurement was not entered correctly, and should be changed, select
**Correct Measure**. Doing so opens a new pop-up window, titled **Quality
Check**. Enter the corrected measurement in the **Measure** field, then click
**Validate** to complete the check, and move on to the next step of the work
order.

If the measurement was entered correctly, click **Confirm Measure** instead,
and the quality check fails. Follow any instructions that were listed on the
**Quality Check Failed** pop-up window.

If a quality alert must be created, do so by clicking the **â˜° (three
horizontal lines)** button, and selecting **Quality Alert** from the **Menu**
pop-up window. A **Quality Alerts** pop-up window appears, from which a
quality alert can be created.

For a complete guide on how to fill out the quality alert form, view the
documentation on [quality
alerts](../quality_management/quality_alerts#quality-quality-management-
quality-alerts).

  *[QCP]: Quality Control Point
  *[QCPs]: Quality Control Points

