# Take a Picture quality check

In Odoo _Quality_ , a _Take a Picture_ check is one of the quality check types
that can be selected when creating a new quality check or quality control
point (QCP). _Take a Picture_ checks require a picture to be attached to the
check, which can then be reviewed by a quality team.

## Create a Take a Picture quality check

There are two distinct ways that _Take a Picture_ quality checks can be
created. A single check can be manually created. Alternatively, a QCP can be
configured that automatically creates checks at a predetermined interval.

This documentation only details the configuration options that are unique to
_Take a Picture_ quality checks and QCP. For a full overview of all the
configuration options available when creating a single check or a QCP, see the
documentation on [quality
checks](../quality_management/quality_checks.html#quality-quality-management-
quality-checks) and [quality control
points](../quality_management/quality_checks.html#quality-quality-management-
quality-checks).

### Quality check

To create a single _Take a Picture_ quality check, navigate to Quality ‚Ä£
Quality Control ‚Ä£ Quality Checks, and click New. Fill out the new quality
check form as follows:

  * In the Type drop-down field, select the Take a Picture quality check type.

  * In the Team drop-down field, select the quality team responsible for managing the check.

  * In the Instructions text field of the Notes tab, enter instructions for how the picture should be taken.

![A quality check form configured for a Take a Picture quality
check.](../../../../_images/picture-check-form.png)

### Quality Control Point (QCP)

To create a QCP that will generate _Take a Picture_ quality checks
automatically, navigate to Quality ‚Ä£ Quality Control ‚Ä£ Control Points, and
click New. Fill out the new QCP form as follows:

  * In the Type drop-down field, select the Take a Picture quality check type.

  * If the _Maintenance_ app is installed, a Device field appears after selecting the _Take a Picture_ check type. Use this field to specify a device that should be used to take quality check pictures. For information about managing devices in the _Maintenance_ app, see the documentation on [adding new equipment](../../maintenance/equipment_management/add_new_equipment.html#maintenance-equipment-management-add-new-equipment).

  * In the Team drop-down field, select the quality team responsible for managing the checks created by the QCP.

  * In the Instructions text field, enter instructions for how the picture should be taken.

![A Quality Control Point \(QCP\) form configured to create a Take a Picture
quality check.](../../../../_images/picture-qcp-form.png)

## Process a Take a Picture quality check

Once created, there are multiple ways that _Take a Picture_ quality checks can
be processed. If a quality check is assigned to a specific inventory,
manufacturing, or work order, the check can be processed on the order itself.
Alternatively, a check can be processed from the check‚Äôs page.

### From the check‚Äôs page

To process a _Take a Picture_ quality check from the check‚Äôs page, begin by
navigating to Quality ‚Ä£ Quality Control ‚Ä£ Quality Checks, and then select a
quality check. Follow the Instructions for how to take the picture.

After taking the picture, make sure it is stored on the device being used to
process the quality check (computer, tablet, etc.). Then, click the ‚úèÔ∏è
(pencil) button in the Picture section to open the device‚Äôs file manager. In
the file manager, navigate to the picture, select it, and click Open to attach
it.

![The edit button \(pencil\) on a Take a Picture quality
check.](../../../../_images/picture-edit-button.png)

### On an order

To process a _Take a Picture_ quality check on an order, select a
manufacturing order or inventory order (receipt, delivery, return, etc.), for
which a check is required. Manufacturing orders can be selected by navigating
to Manufacturing ‚Ä£ Operations ‚Ä£ Manufacturing Orders, and clicking on an
order. Inventory orders can be selected by navigating to Inventory, clicking
the # To Process button on an operation card, and selecting an order.

On the selected manufacturing or inventory order, a purple Quality Checks
button appears at the top of the page. Click the button to open the Quality
Check pop-up window, which shows all of the quality checks required for that
order.

Follow the instructions detailing how to take the picture, which are shown on
the Quality Check pop-up window. After taking the picture, make sure it is
stored on the device being used to process the quality check (computer,
tablet, etc.).

Then, click the Take a Picture button in the Picture section to open the
device‚Äôs file manager. In the file manager, navigate to the picture, select
it, and click Open to attach it. Finally, click Validate on the Quality Check
pop-up window to complete the quality check.

![A Take a Picture quality check pop-up window on a manufacturing or inventory
order.](../../../../_images/picture-check-pop-up.png)

If a quality alert must be created, click the Quality Alert button that
appears at the top of the manufacturing or inventory order after the check is
validated. Clicking Quality Alert opens a quality alert form on a new page.
For a complete guide on how to fill out quality alert forms, view the
documentation on [quality
alerts](../quality_management/quality_alerts.html#quality-quality-management-
quality-alerts).

### On a work order

When configuring a QCP that is triggered during manufacturing, a specific work
order can also be specified in the Work Order Operation field on the QCP form.
If a work order is specified, a _Take a Picture_ quality check is created for
that specific work order, rather than the manufacturing order as a whole.

_Take a Picture_ quality checks created for work orders must be completed from
the tablet view. To do so, begin by navigating to Manufacturing ‚Ä£ Operations ‚Ä£
Manufacturing Orders. Select a manufacturing order that includes a work order
for which a quality check is required. Open the tablet view for that work
order by selecting the Work Orders tab, and then clicking the üì± (tablet)
button on the order‚Äôs line.

With tablet view open, complete the steps listed on the left side of the
screen until the _Take a Picture_ quality check step is reached. Upon reaching
the check, follow the instructions for how to take the picture, which appear
at the top of the screen.

After taking the picture, make sure it is stored on the device being used to
process the work order (computer, tablet, etc.). Then, click the Take a
Picture button to open the device‚Äôs file manager. In the file manager,
navigate to the picture, select it, and click Open to attach it. Finally,
click Validate to complete the quality check.

![A Take a Picture check for a manufacturing work
order.](../../../../_images/work-order-picture-check.png)

If a quality alert must be created, do so by clicking the ‚ò∞ (three horizontal
lines) button in the tablet view, and selecting Quality Alert from the Menu
pop-up window. A Quality Alerts pop-up window appears, from which a quality
alert can be created. For a complete guide on how to fill out quality alert
forms, view the documentation on [quality
alerts](../quality_management/quality_alerts.html#quality-quality-management-
quality-alerts).

## Review a picture attached to a check

After a picture has been attached to a check, it can then be reviewed by
quality team members or other users. To do so, navigate to Quality ‚Ä£ Quality
Control ‚Ä£ Quality Checks, and select a quality check to review.

The attached picture appears in the Picture section of the quality check form.
After reviewing the picture, click the Pass button if the check passes, or the
Fail button if the check fails.

![A Take a Picture check with a picture attached.](../../../../_images/review-
picture-check.png)

  *[QCP]: Quality Control Point

