# Compartir puestos de trabajo

In Odoo _Referrals_ , users can earn referral points by sharing job positions
with potential applicants. Job positions can be shared in several ways,
through the View Jobs button and the Email A Friend button, located at the
bottom of the _Referrals_ app dashboard.

Nota

Sharing jobs can **only** occur after onboarding slides have been viewed or
skipped.

## Ver trabajos

To see all job positions that are actively recruiting candidates, click the
View Jobs button on the main _Referrals_ dashboard. This presents all job
positions, with each individual job presented with its own card.

![La pantalla 'Ver trabajos' donde se muestran todos los puestos abiertos.
Toda la información está en el cuadro.](../../../_images/jobs1.png)

Cada cuadro de puesto de trabajo contiene la siguiente información:

  * The title of the job position. This information is taken from the _Job Position_ field of the job form.

  * The number of Open Positions being recruited. This information is taken from the _Expected New Employees_ field of the _Recruitment_ tab of the job form.

  * The points a user earns when an applicant applies for the position.

  * The job description detailing the job position. This information is taken from the _Job Position_ tab of the job form.

Para ver todos los detalles de un puesto de trabajo, haga clic en el botón Más
información del recuadro correspondiente. Esto abre la página web del puesto
en una nueva pestaña del navegador. Esto es lo que un candidato ve antes de
solicitar un puesto.

Nota

Only published job positions are visible in the _Referrals_ app. To check
which job positions are published or not, refer to the [Puestos de
trabajo](../recruitment/new_job.html) documentation.

## Referir a amigos

To share a job position with someone, click the Refer Friend button on the
specific job position card. A pre-configured Send Job Offer by Mail pop-up
window appears. Enter the recipient’s email address in the Email field.

The Subject and Body are populated using a default template. The Subject `Job
for you` is present, by default, but can be modified, if desired.

The specific title of the job position populates the _Job Position_
placeholder in the email body. The `See Job Offer` text in the email body is
an individualized tracking link to the specific job position listed on the
website.

When the prospective employee receives the email, the link sends them to the
job position page, where they can apply for the position, and the person who
referred them is tracked in the _Referrals_ application.

If desired, add any text or closing salutation to the email body. When all
edits have been made, click Send Mail to send the email, or click Cancel to
close the pop-up window.

![Ventana emergente del correo de referencias con el mensaje del correo
adentro.](../../../_images/email.png)

## Compartir un trabajo

Other than sending an email, job positions can be shared, via social media
platforms, and by tracking links to the job position. At the bottom of each
job position card are four icons, and corresponding tracking links, that can
be used to share the job position, keeping track of applicants in the
_Referrals_ application.

![Los diferentes iconos para compartir para cada
trabajo.](../../../_images/share.png)

### Enlace

To share the job position with a customized tracking link, click the Share Now
button with the __(link) icon above it. A Link to Share pop-up window appears
with the tracking link. Click Copy to copy the link. After the link is copied,
click the Close button to close the pop-up window. Next, share the link with
the prospective employee.

### Facebook

To share the job position using Facebook, click the Share Now button with the
__(Facebook) icon above it.

If the user is already logged into Facebook, when the the Share Now button is
clicked, a Share on Facebook page loads in a new tab, with the link populated
in the main body of the new post in a pop-up window. If the user is _not_
already logged in, a log-in screen loads, instead, prompting the user to log-
in to Facebook first.

Type in any additional information to add to the post, then share the job
position using the available options in Facebook.

### X (formerly Twitter)

A job position can also be shared on X. Click the Share Now button with the
(X) icon above it.

If the user is already signed-in to X, when the Share Now button is clicked,
an X page loads in a new tab with a pre-populated message ready to post, in a
draft pop-up window. If the user is _not_ already signed-in, a sign-in screen
loads instead, prompting the user to first sign-in to X.

El mensaje predeterminado es:

`Amazing job offer for (Job Position)! Check it live: (link to Job Position)`

Type in any additional information, or make any edits to the message, then
share using the available options in X.

### LinkedIn

To share a job position on LinkedIn, click the Share Now button with the
__(LinkedIn) icon above it.

If the user is already logged into LinkedIn, when the Share Now button is
clicked, a new tab loads in LinkedIn, with a link to the job position at the
top. If the user is _not_ already logged in, a log-in screen loads instead,
prompting the user to log-in to LinkedIn first.

The job position can be shared either in a public post, or in a private
message to an individual (or group of individuals).

Type in any additional information, or make any edits to the message or post,
then share using the available options in LinkedIn.

### Enviar un correo a un amigo

Another way to share job opportunities is to share the entire current list of
open job positions, instead of one job position at a time. To do this,
navigate to the Referrals main dashboard. Click the Email a friend button at
the bottom of the screen. A Send Job Offer by Mail pop-up window appears.

Enter the email address in the Email field. The email can be sent to multiple
recipients by separating each email address with a comma followed by a single
space. The Subject is pre-configured with Job for you, but can be edited.

The email Body is also populated with pre-configured text. The text that
appears is:

`Hola,`

`There are some amazing job offers in my company! Have a look, they can be
interesting for you:`

`Ver ofertas de trabajo`

The See Job Offers text is a tracking link to a complete list of all job
positions currently being recruited for. Add any additional text and make any
edits to the message body, if necessary. Then, click Send Mail to send the
email. This sends the message, and closes the window.

