# Batch payments: SEPA Direct Debit (SDD)

SEPA, the Single Euro Payments Area, is a payment-integration initiative of
the European Union for simplification of bank transfers denominated in euros.
With **SEPA Direct Debit** (SDD), your customers can sign a mandate that
authorizes you to collect future payments from their bank accounts. This is
particularly useful for recurring payments based on a subscription.

You can record customer mandates in Konvergo ERP, and generate `.xml` files containing
pending payments made with an SDD mandate.

<div class="alert alert-primary">
<p class="alert-title">
Note</p><div class="line-block">
<div class="line">SDD is supported by all SEPA countries, which includes the 27 member states of the European
Union as well as additional countries.</div>
<div class="line"><a href="https://www.europeanpaymentscouncil.eu/document-library/other/epc-list-sepa-scheme-countries">List of all SEPA countries</a>.</div>
</div>
</div>

## Configuration

Go to Accounting app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings, activate **SEPA Direct Debit
(SDD)** , and click on **Save**. Enter your company’s **Creditor Identifier**.
This number is provided by your bank institution, or the authority responsible
for delivering them.

![Add a SEPA Creditor Identifier to Konvergo ERP
Accounting](../../../../_images/creditor-identifier.png)

## SEPA Direct Debit Mandates

### Create a mandate

The SDD Mandate is the document that your customers sign to authorize you to
collect money directly from their bank accounts.

To create a new mandate, go to Accounting app ‣ Customers ‣ Direct Debit
Mandates, on **Create** , and fill out the form. Export the PDF file by
clicking on **Print**. It is then up to your customer to sign this document.
Once done, upload the signed file and click on **Validate** to start running
the mandate.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
<p class="alert-title">
Important</p><p>Make sure that the <b>IBAN bank accounts details</b> are correctly recorded on the debtor’s contact
form, under the <b>Accounting</b> tab, and in your own <a href="../bank">Bank Account</a> settings.</p>
</div>

### SEPA Direct Debit as a payment method

SDD can be used as a payment method both on your **eCommerce** or on the
**Customer Portal** by activating SDD as a **Payment Provider**. With this
method, your customers can create and sign their mandates themselves.

To do so, go to Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Payment Providers, click on _SEPA
Direct Debit_ , and set it up according to your needs. To do so, go to
Accounting app ‣ Configuration ‣ Payment Acquirers, click on **SEPA Direct
Debit**.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
<p class="alert-title">
Important</p><p>Make sure to change the <b>State</b> field to <b>Enabled</b>, and to check
<b>Online Signature</b>, as this is necessary to let your customers sign their mandates.</p>
</div>

Customers using SDD as payment method get prompted to add their IBAN, email
address, and to sign their SEPA Direct Debit mandate.

### Close or revoke a mandate

Direct debit mandates are closed automatically after their **End Date**. If
this field is left blank, the mandate keeps being **Active** until it is
**Closed** or **Revoked**.

Clicking on **Close** updates the mandate’s end day to the current day. This
means that invoices issued after the present day will not be processed with an
SDD payment.

Clicking on **Revoke** disables the mandate immediately. No SDD payment can be
registered anymore, regardless of the invoice’s date. However, payments that
have already been registered are still included in the next SDD `.xml` file.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
<p class="alert-title">
Warning</p><p>Once a mandate has been <b>closed</b> or <b>revoked</b>, it cannot be reactivated.</p>
</div>

## Get paid with SEPA Direct Debit batch payments

### Customer invoices

You can register SDD payments for invoices issued to customers who have an
active SDD mandate.

To do so, open the invoice, click on **Register Payment** , and choose **SEPA
Direct Debit** as payment method.

### Generate SEPA Direct Debit `.XML` files to submit payments

`.xml` files with all SDD payment instructions can be uploaded to your online
banking interface to process all payments at once.

<div class="alert alert-primary">
<p class="alert-title">
Note</p><p>The files generated by Konvergo ERP follow the SEPA Direct Debit <b>PAIN.008.001.02</b> specifications, as
required by the SEPA customer-to-bank <a href="https://www.europeanpaymentscouncil.eu/document-library/implementation-guidelines/sepa-credit-transfer-customer-psp-implementation">implementation guidelines</a>,
which ensures compatibility with the banks.</p>
</div>

To generate your `.xml` file of multiple pending SDD payments, you can create
a batch payment. To do so, go to Accounting app ‣ Customers ‣ Payments, select
the needed payments, then click on **Action** , and finally **Create a batch
Payment**. Once you click on **Validate** , the `.xml` file is directly
available for download.

![Generate an .XML file for your SDD payments in Konvergo ERP
Accounting](../../../../_images/xml.png)

Finally, upload this file to your online banking interface to process the
payments.

<div class="alert alert-info">
<p class="alert-title">
Tip</p><p>You can retrieve all the generated SDD <code>.xml</code> files by going to
Accounting app ‣ Customers ‣ Batch Payments.</p>
</div> <div class="alert alert-secondary">
<p class="alert-title">
See also</p><ul>
<li><p><a href="batch">Batch payments by bank deposit</a></p></li>
<li><p><a href="../bank">Bank and cash accounts</a></p></li>
<li><p><a href="https://www.europeanpaymentscouncil.eu/document-library/other/epc-list-sepa-scheme-countries">List of all SEPA countries</a></p></li>
<li><p><a href="https://www.europeanpaymentscouncil.eu/document-library/implementation-guidelines/sepa-credit-transfer-inter-psp-implementation-guidelines">Sepa guidelines</a></p></li>
</ul>
</div>

  *[SDD]: sepa direct debit

