# Batch payments: SEPA Direct Debit (SDD)

SEPA, the Single Euro Payments Area, is a payment-integration initiative of
the European Union for simplification of bank transfers denominated in euros.
With **SEPA Direct Debit** (SDD), your customers can sign a mandate that
authorizes you to collect future payments from their bank accounts. This is
particularly useful for recurring payments based on a subscription.

You can record customer mandates in Odoo, and generate `.xml` files containing
pending payments made with an SDD mandate.

Note

SDD is supported by all SEPA countries, which includes the 27 member states of
the European Union as well as additional countries.

[List of all SEPA countries](https://www.europeanpaymentscouncil.eu/document-
library/other/epc-list-sepa-scheme-countries).

## Configuration

Go to Accounting app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings, activate SEPA Direct Debit
(SDD), and click on Save. Enter your company’s Creditor Identifier. This
number is provided by your bank institution, or the authority responsible for
delivering them.

![Add a SEPA Creditor Identifier to Odoo
Accounting](../../../../_images/creditor-identifier.png)

## SEPA Direct Debit Mandates

### Create a mandate

The SDD Mandate is the document that your customers sign to authorize you to
collect money directly from their bank accounts.

To create a new mandate, go to Accounting app ‣ Customers ‣ Direct Debit
Mandates, on Create, and fill out the form. Export the PDF file by clicking on
Print. It is then up to your customer to sign this document. Once done, upload
the signed file and click on Validate to start running the mandate.

Important

Make sure that the **IBAN bank accounts details** are correctly recorded on
the debtor’s contact form, under the Accounting tab, and in your own [Bank
Account](../bank.html) settings.

### SEPA Direct Debit as a payment method

SDD can be used as a payment method both on your **eCommerce** or on the
**Customer Portal** by activating SDD as a **Payment Provider**. With this
method, your customers can create and sign their mandates themselves.

To do so, go to Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Payment Providers, click on _SEPA
Direct Debit_ , and set it up according to your needs. To do so, go to
Accounting app ‣ Configuration ‣ Payment Acquirers, click on SEPA Direct
Debit.

Important

Make sure to change the State field to Enabled, and to check Online Signature,
as this is necessary to let your customers sign their mandates.

Customers using SDD as payment method get prompted to add their IBAN, email
address, and to sign their SEPA Direct Debit mandate.

### Close or revoke a mandate

Direct debit mandates are closed automatically after their End Date. If this
field is left blank, the mandate keeps being **Active** until it is **Closed**
or **Revoked**.

Clicking on Close updates the mandate’s end day to the current day. This means
that invoices issued after the present day will not be processed with an SDD
payment.

Clicking on Revoke disables the mandate immediately. No SDD payment can be
registered anymore, regardless of the invoice’s date. However, payments that
have already been registered are still included in the next SDD `.xml` file.

Warning

Once a mandate has been closed or revoked, it cannot be reactivated.

## Get paid with SEPA Direct Debit batch payments

### Customer invoices

You can register SDD payments for invoices issued to customers who have an
active SDD mandate.

To do so, open the invoice, click on Register Payment, and choose SEPA Direct
Debit as payment method.

### Generate SEPA Direct Debit `.XML` files to submit payments

`.xml` files with all SDD payment instructions can be uploaded to your online
banking interface to process all payments at once.

Note

The files generated by Odoo follow the SEPA Direct Debit **PAIN.008.001.02**
specifications, as required by the SEPA customer-to-bank [implementation
guidelines](https://www.europeanpaymentscouncil.eu/document-
library/implementation-guidelines/sepa-credit-transfer-customer-psp-
implementation), which ensures compatibility with the banks.

To generate your `.xml` file of multiple pending SDD payments, you can create
a batch payment. To do so, go to Accounting app ‣ Customers ‣ Payments, select
the needed payments, then click on Action, and finally Create a batch Payment.
Once you click on Validate, the `.xml` file is directly available for
download.

![Generate an .XML file for your SDD payments in Odoo
Accounting](../../../../_images/xml.png)

Finally, upload this file to your online banking interface to process the
payments.

Tip

You can retrieve all the generated SDD `.xml` files by going to Accounting app
‣ Customers ‣ Batch Payments.

See also

  * [Batch payments by bank deposit](batch.html)

  * [Bank and cash accounts](../bank.html)

  * [List of all SEPA countries](https://www.europeanpaymentscouncil.eu/document-library/other/epc-list-sepa-scheme-countries)

  * [Sepa guidelines](https://www.europeanpaymentscouncil.eu/document-library/implementation-guidelines/sepa-credit-transfer-inter-psp-implementation-guidelines)

  *[SDD]: sepa direct debit

