# Use serial numbers to track products

_Serial numbers_ are one of the two ways to identify and track products in
Odoo. A serial number is a unique identifier assigned incrementally (or
sequentially) to an item or product, used to distinguish it from other items
and products.

Serial numbers can consist of many different types of characters: they can be
strictly numerical, they can contain letters and other typographical symbols,
or they can be a mix of all of the above.

The goal of assigning serial numbers to individual products is to make sure
that every item’s history is identifiable when it travels through the supply
chain. This can be especially useful for manufacturers that provide after-
sales services to products that they sell and deliver.

See also

[Lot numbers](lots.html)

## Enable lots & serial numbers

To track products using serial numbers, the Lots & Serial Numbers feature must
be enabled. To enable this, go to Inventory app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings,
scroll down to the Traceability section, and click the box next to Lots &
Serial Numbers. Remember to click the Save button to save changes.

![Enabled lots and serial numbers setting.](../../../../../_images/serial-
numbers-enabled-setting.png)

## Configure serial number tracking on products

Once the Lots & Serial Numbers setting has been activated, individual products
can now be tracked using serial numbers. To configure this, go to Inventory
app ‣ Products ‣ Products, and choose a desired product to track.

Once on the product form, click Edit, and click the Inventory tab.

Once on the product form, click Edit, navigate to the Inventory tab, and
scroll to the Traceability section. Then, select the By Unique Serial Number
option, and click Save to save the changes. Existing or new serial numbers can
now be selected and assigned to newly-received or manufactured batches of this
product.

![Enabled serial number tracking on product
form.](../../../../../_images/serial-numbers-product-tracking.png)

Warning

If a product doesn’t have a serial number assigned to it, a user error pop-up
window will appear. The error message states that the product(s) in stock have
no lot/serial number. However, a lot/serial number can be assigned to the
product by making an inventory adjustment.

### Create new serial numbers for products already in stock

New serial numbers can be created for products already in stock with no
assigned serial number. To do this, go to Inventory ‣ Products ‣ Lots/Serial
Numbers, and click Create. Doing so reveals a blank lots/serial numbers form.
On this form, a new Lot/Serial Number is generated automatically.

Tip

While Odoo automatically generates a new lot/serial number to follow the most
recent number, it can be edited and changed to any desired number, by clicking
the line under the Lot/Serial Number field, and changing the generated number.

Once the Lot/Serial Number is generated, click the blank field next to Product
to reveal a drop-down menu. From this menu, select the product to which this
new number will be assigned.

This form also provides the option to adjust the Quantity, to assign a unique
Internal Reference number (for traceability purposes), and to assign this
specific lot/serial number configuration to a specific website in the Website
field (if working in a multi-website environment).

A detailed description of this specific lot/serial number can also be added in
the Description tab below.

When all desired configurations are complete, click the Save button to save
all changes.

![New serial number created for existing product
stock.](../../../../../_images/serial-numbers-new-serial-number.png)

After a new serial number has been created, assigned to the desired product,
and saved, navigate back to the product form, by going to Products ‣ Products,
and selecting the product that this newly-created serial number was just
assigned to.

On that product’s detail form, click the Lot/Serial Numbers smart button to
view the new serial number.

## Manage serial numbers for shipping and receiving

Serial numbers can be assigned for both **incoming** and **outgoing** goods.
For incoming goods, serial numbers are assigned directly on the purchase order
form. For outgoing goods, serial numbers are assigned directly on the sales
order form.

### Manage serial numbers on receipts

Assigning serial numbers to **incoming** goods can be done directly from the
purchase order (PO).

To create a PO, go to the Purchase app ‣ Create. Doing so reveals a new, blank
request for quotation (RFQ) form.

On this RFQ form, fill out the necessary information, by adding a Vendor, and
by adding the desired products to the Product lines, by clicking Add a
product, under the Products tab.

Choose the desired quantity of the product to order, by changing the number in
the Quantity column.

When the necessary configurations are complete, click Confirm Order. This will
convert the RFQ to a purchase order.

Then, click the Receipt smart button to be taken to the warehouse receipt form
page for that specific PO.

Warning

Clicking Validate before assigning a serial number to the ordered product
quantities will cause a User Error pop-up to appear. The pop-up requires entry
of a lot or serial number for the ordered products. The RFQ **cannot** be
validated without a serial number being assigned.

![User error popup prompting serial number
entry.](../../../../../_images/serial-numbers-user-error-popup.png)

From here, click the Additional Options menu, represented by a `hamburger`
icon (four horizontal lines, located to the right of the Unit of Measure
column in the Operations tab). Clicking that icon reveals a Detailed
Operations pop-up.

In this pop-up, configure a number of different fields, including the
assignation of a serial number (or serial numbers) under the Lot/Serial Number
Name column, located at the bottom of the pop-up.

There are three ways to do this: manually assigning serial numbers,
automatically assigning serial numbers, and copy/pasting serial numbers from a
spreadsheet.

#### Assign serial numbers manually

To assign serial numbers manually, click Add a line from the Detailed
Operations pop-up, and first choose the location where the product will be
stored under the To column.

Then, type a new Serial Number Name, and set the Done quantity in the
appropriate columns.

Repeat this process for the quantity of products shown in the Demand field,
and until the Quantity Done field displays the correct (matching) number of
products processed.

#### Assign serial numbers automatically

If a large quantity of products need individual serial numbers assigned to
them, Odoo can automatically generate and assign serial numbers to each of the
individual products.

To accomplish this, start with the First SN field in the Detailed Operations
pop-up window, and type the first serial number in the desired order to be
assigned.

Then, in the Number of SN field, type the total number of items that need
newly-generated unique serial numbers assigned to them.

Finally, click Assign Serial Numbers, and a list will populate with new serial
numbers matching the ordered quantity of products.

![Automatic serial number assignment in detailed operations
popup.](../../../../../_images/serial-numbers-auto-assign-sn.png)

#### Copy/paste serial numbers from a spreadsheet

To copy and paste serial numbers from an existing spreadsheet, first populate
a spreadsheet with all of the serial numbers received from the supplier (or
manually chosen upon receipt). Then, copy and paste them in the Lot/Serial
Number Name column. Odoo will automatically create the necessary number of
lines based on the amount of numbers pasted in the column.

From here, the To locations and Done quantities can be manually entered in
each of the serial number lines.

![List of serial numbers copied in Excel
spreadsheet.](../../../../../_images/serial-numbers-excel-spreadsheet.png)

Tip

For purchase orders that include large quantities of products to receive, the
best method of serial number assignment is to automatically assign serial
numbers using the Assign Serial Numbers button located on the PO. This
prevents any serial numbers from being reused or duplicated, and improves
traceability reporting.

Once all product quantities have been assigned a serial number, click the
Confirm button to close the pop-up. Then, click Validate.

A Traceability smart button appears upon validating the receipt. Click the
Traceability smart button to see the updated Traceability Report, which
includes: a Reference document, the Product being traced, the Lot/Serial #,
and more.

Once all product quantities have been assigned a serial number, click Confirm
to close the popup, and click Validate. A Traceability smart button will
appear upon validating the receipt. Click the Traceability smart button to see
the updated Traceability Report, which includes: a Reference document, the
Product being traced, the Lot/Serial #, and more.

### Manage serial numbers on delivery orders

Assigning serial numbers to **outgoing** goods can be done directly from the
sales order (SO).

To create an SO, navigate to the Sales app, and click the Create button. Doing
so reveals a new, blank quotation form. On this blank quotation form, fill out
the necessary information, by adding a Customer, and adding products to the
Product lines (in the Order Lines tab), by clicking Add a product.

Then, choose the desired quantity to sell by changing the number in the
Quantity column.

Once the quotation has been filled out, click the Confirm button to confirm
the quotation. When the quotation is confirmed, the quotation becomes an SO,
and a Delivery smart button appears.

Click the Delivery smart button to view the warehouse receipt form for that
specific SO.

From here, click the Additional Options menu, represented by a `hamburger`
icon (four horizontal lines, located to the right of the Unit of Measure
column in the Operations tab). Clicking that icon reveals a Detailed
Operations pop-up.

In the pop-up, a Lot/Serial Number will be chosen by default, with each
product of the total Reserved quantity listed with their unique serial numbers
(most likely listed in sequential order).

To manually change a product’s serial number, click the drop-down menu under
Lot/Serial Number, and choose (or type) the desired serial number. Then, mark
the Done quantities, and click Confirm to close the pop-up.

Finally, click the Validate button to deliver the products.

![Serial numbers listed in detailed operations
popup.](../../../../../_images/serial-numbers-detailed-operations-popup.png)

Upon validating the delivery order, a Traceability smart button appears. Click
the Traceability smart button to see the updated Traceability Report, which
includes: a Reference document, the Product being traced, the Date, and the
Lot/Serial # assigned.

The Traceability Report can also include a Reference receipt from the previous
purchase order (PO), if any of the product quantities shared a serial number
assigned during receipt of that specific PO.

## Manage serial numbers for different operations types

By default in Odoo, the creation of new serial numbers is only allowed upon
**receiving** products from a purchase order. **Existing** serial numbers
cannot be used. For sales orders, the opposite is true: new serial numbers
cannot be created on the delivery order, only existing serial numbers can be
used.

To change the ability to use new (or existing) serial numbers on any operation
type, go to Inventory app ‣ Configuration ‣ Operations Types, and select the
desired Operation Type.

For the Receipts operation type, found on the Operations Types page, the Use
Existing Lots/Serial Numbers option can be enabled, by selecting Receipts from
the Operations Types page, clicking Edit, and then clicking the checkbox
beside the Use Existing Lots/Serial Numbers option (in the Traceability
section). Lastly, click the Save button to save the changes.

For the Delivery Orders operation type, located on the Operations Types page,
the Create New Lots/Serial Numbers option can be enabled, by selecting
Delivery Orders from the Operations Types page, clicking Edit, and clicking
the checkbox beside the Create New Lots/Serial Numbers option (in the
Traceability section). Be sure to click Save to save changes.

![Enabled traceability setting in operations type
form.](../../../../../_images/serial-numbers-operations-types.png)

## Serial number traceability

Manufacturers and companies can refer to the traceability reports to see the
entire lifecycle of a product: where it came from (and when), where it was
stored, and who it went to.

To see the full traceability of a product, or group by serial numbers, go to
Inventory app ‣ Products ‣ Lots/Serial Numbers. Doing so reveals the
Lots/Serial Numbers dashboard.

From here, products with serial numbers assigned to them will be listed by
default, and can be expanded to show what serial numbers have been
specifically assigned to them.

To group by serial numbers (or lots), first remove any default filters from
the search bar in the upper-right corner. Then, click Group By, and select Add
Custom Group, which reveals a mini drop-down menu. From this mini drop-down
menu, select Lot/Serial Number, and click Apply.

Doing so reveals all existing serial numbers and lots, and can be expanded to
show all quantities of products with that assigned number. For unique serial
numbers that are not reused, there should be just one product per serial
number.

![Serial numbers reporting page with drop-down
lists.](../../../../../_images/serial-numbers-reporting-page.png)

Tip

For additional information regarding an individual serial number (or lot
number), click the line item for the serial number to reveal that specific
serial number’s Serial Number form. From this form, click the Location and
Traceability smart buttons to see all stock on-hand using that serial number,
and any operations made using that serial number.

See also

[Difference between lots and serial numbers](differences.html)

  *[PO]: purchase order
  *[RFQ]: request for quotation
  *[SO]: sales order

