# Bill of materials

A _bill of materials_ (or _BoM_ for short) is a document that defines the
quantity of each component required to make or deliver a finished product. It
can also include various operations and the individual step guidelines needed
to complete a production process.

In Odoo Manufacturing, multiple BoMs can be linked to each product, so even
product variants can have their own tailored BoMs.

Correctly setting up a BoM helps optimize the manufacturing process and save
time.

## Set up a bill of materials (BoM)

The simplest BoM setup is one without operations or instructions, only
components. In this case, the production is solely managed using
_Manufacturing Orders_.

To create a BoM from the Manufacturing module, go to Products ‣ Bills of
Materials. Then, click Create. Next, specify the Product.

Note

A BoM can also be created directly from the product form, in which case the
Product field is pre-filled.

For a standard BoM, set the BoM Type to Manufacture this Product. Then, click
Add a Line to specify the various components that make up the production of
the final product and their respective quantities. New components can be
created quickly through the BoM, or can be created beforehand in Manufacturing
‣ Products ‣ Products ‣ Create. Finally, click Save to finish creating the
BoM.

![Set up a Bill of Materials.](../../../../_images/bom-form.png)

### Specify a bill of materials (BoM) for a product variant

BoMs can also be assigned to specific _Product Variants_ , with two setup
options available to choose from.

Note

In order to assign BoMs to product variants, the product’s variant attributes
must already be configured on the product form.

The first method is to create one BoM per variant by creating a new BoM and
specifying the Product Variant. The second method is to create one master BoM
that contains all of the components, and specify which variant each component
applies to using the Apply on Variants column.

![Product Variants in the Bill of Materials.](../../../../_images/bom-
variants.png)

## Set up operations

Add an Operation to a BoM to specify instructions for production and register
time spent on an operation. To use this feature, first enable the Work Orders
feature in Manufacturing ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings ‣ Operations.

Then, when creating a new BoM, click on the Operations tab and click Add a
line to add a new operation. In the Create Operations box, give the operation
a name, specify the Work Center and duration settings. Like components, Odoo
gives the option to specify a product variant in the Apply on Variants field
so the operation only applies to that variant. Finally, click Save & Close.

Note

Each operation is unique, as it is always exclusively linked to one BoM.
Operations can be reused when configuring a new BoM, with the Copy Existing
Operations feature.

![Copy Existing Operations feature.](../../../../_images/copy-existing-
operations.png)

## Add by-products to a bill of materials (BoM)

A _By-Product_ is a residual product that is created during production in
addition to the main product of a BoM. Unlike the primary product, there can
be more than one by-product on a BoM.

To add by-products to a BoM, first enable the By-Products feature in
Manufacturing ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings ‣ Operations.

Once the feature is enabled, you can add by-products to a BoM by clicking on
the Operations tab and clicking Add a line. Then, name the by-product and
indicate the Quantity and the Unit of Measure. If the BoM has configured
operations, specify exactly which operation the by-product is produced from in
the Produced in Operation field. Finally, click Save.

  *[BoMs]: Bills of Materials
  *[BoM]: Bill of Materials

