# Use kits

In Odoo, a _kit_ is a type of bill of materials (BoM) that can be manufactured
and sold. Kits are sets of unassembled components sold to customers. They may
be sold as standalone products, but are also useful tools for managing more
complex bills of materials (BoMs).

Note

To use, manufacture, and sell kits, both the Manufacturing and Inventory apps
need to be installed.

## Create the kit as a product

To use a kit as a sellable product, or simply as a component organization
tool, the kit should first be created as a product.

To create a kit product, go to Inventory app ‣ Products ‣ Products, and click
Create.

Then, assign a name to the new kit product. Next, under the General
Information tab, set the Product Type to Consumable. Kit products work best as
consumables, because the stock on-hand for kits is typically not tracked.

Note

Although kits should almost always be set to Consumable, companies using
**Anglo-Saxon** accounting might need to create kits as a Storable Product.
This is because when processing invoices for kits, the Cost of Goods Sold
(COGS) will be posted in accounting journals.

Unlike storable products, the Routes designation under the Inventory tab does
not matter for kits, since Odoo uses the routes of the kit’s individual
components for replenishment purposes. All other parameters for the kit
product may be modified according to preference. Once ready, click Save to
save the new product.

The kit’s components must also be configured as products via Inventory app ‣
Products ‣ Products. These components require no specific configuration.

## Set up the kit BoM

After fully configuring the kit product and its components, a new BoM can be
created for the kit product.

To do so, go to Manufacturing app ‣ Products ‣ Bills of Materials, and click
Create. Next to the Product field, click the drop-down menu to reveal a list
of products, and select the previously configured kit product.

Then, for the BoM Type field, select the Kit option. Finally, under the
Components tab, click Add a line, and add each desired component, and specify
their quantities under the Quantity column.

Once ready, click Save to save the newly-created BoM.

![Kit selection on the bill of materials.](../../../../_images/bom-kit-
selection.png)

If the kit is solely being used as a sellable product, then only components
need to be added under the Components tab, and configuring manufacturing
operations is not necessary.

Note

When a kit is sold as a product, it appears as a single line item on the
quotation and sales order. However, on delivery orders, each component of the
kit is listed.

## Use kits to manage complex BoMs

Kits are also used to manage multi-level BoMs. These are products that contain
**other** BoM products as components, and therefore require _nested_ BoMs.
Incorporating pre-configured kits into multi-level BoMs allows for cleaner
organization of bundled products.

To configure this type of BoM with a kit as a component, go to Manufacturing
app ‣ Products ‣ Bills of Materials, and click Create.

Next to the Product field, click the drop-down menu to reveal a list of
products, and select the desired BoM product. Then, for the BoM Type field,
select the Manufacture this product option.

Under the Components tab, click Add a line, and select a kit as the component.
Adding the kit as a component eliminates the need to add the kit’s components
individually. Any BoM Type can be used for the higher-level product’s BoM.

Once ready, click Save to save changes.

![Kit as a component in a multilevel bill of
materials.](../../../../_images/multilevel-bom-kit.png)

### Structure & cost

To access a comprehensive overview of the multi-level BoM’s components, click
on the Structure & Cost smart button. Sublevel BoMs can be expanded and viewed
from this report.

![Expanded kit in the Structure and Cost
report.](../../../../_images/structure-and-cost-kit.png)

When creating a manufacturing order for a product with a multi-level BoM, the
kit product automatically expands to show all components. Any operations in
the kit’s BoM are also added to the list of work orders on the manufacturing
order.

Tip

Kits are primarily used to bundle components together for organization or
sale. To manage multi-level products that require manufactured sub-components,
refer to [this documentation](sub_assemblies.html) on sub-assemblies.

  *[BoM]: bill of materials
  *[BoMs]: bills of materials
  *[BoM’s]: bill of material's

