# Mailing lists

Mailing lists are important for a number of reasons. Mailing lists can provide
valuable leads for sales teams, communicate with focus groups participants,
contact consumers directly for useful feedback, and more.

## Create mailing lists

To create a mailing list in the _Email Marketing_ application, navigate to
Mailing lists ‣ Mailing lists ‣ Create. Clicking Create reveals a pop-up
window.

![View of the mailing list pop-up in the Odoo Email Marketing
application.](../../../_images/new-mailing-list-popup.png)

In the pop-up, name the mailing list and designate if the mailing list should
be public with the Is Public checkbox.

The Is Public option allows the mailing list to be accessible by recipients in
the unsubscription page, making it possible for them to update their
subscription preferences.

After those options have been configured, click Create to create the mailing
list, which Odoo automatically adds to the Mailing Lists page.

## Add contacts to a mailing list

After a mailing list has been created (and added to the Mailing Lists
dashboard), click on the desired mailing list to add contacts to the list.

Clicking the desired mailing list reveals a separate Mailing List Contacts
page, in which contacts can be added to this specific list by clicking Create,
and adding contact information directly on a separate contact detail form.

Or, while in the Email Marketing application, navigate to Mailing Lists ‣
Mailing List Contacts. Doing so reveals a separate page with all the mailing
list contacts in the database.

From here, click Create, and add a contact with the same previous steps. Or,
click the Import icon (to the right of the Create button) to import contacts
into the database.

Once contacts are in the database, click into the desired contact’s detail
form, and add the preferred mailing list in the Mailing List tab (at the
bottom of the contact detail form), by clicking Add a line, and selecting the
desired mailing list. Multiple mailing lists can be added to a single
contact’s detail form.

![View of a contact detail form with mailing list tab in Odoo Email
Marketing.](../../../_images/contact-form-mailing-list-tab.png)

### Create new mailing list from contact detail form

To create a mailing list from a contact detail form, click Add a line, and
type in the name of a new mailing list in the empty field that appears. Then,
select either Create or Create and Edit….

![View of the new mailing list drop-down on contact form in Odoo Email
Marketing.](../../../_images/new-list-dropdown-create-options.png)

The Create option quickly creates the mailing list to the contact detail form,
and the list can be configured at a later date. The Create and Edit… option
creates the mailing list, and reveals a pop-up window, in which the new
mailing list can be configured right away.

![View of the create and edit mailing list pop-up in Odoo Email
Marketing.](../../../_images/create-and-edit-mailing-list-popup.png)

## Link a mailing list to website (Newsletter blocks)

When a mailing list is created in the database, Odoo provides the option to
directly link the mailing list on the Odoo-built website (created via Odoo’s
Website application).

To link a mailing list to a website, navigate to the front-end of the website,
and enter Edit mode by clicking Edit in the upper-right corner. When clicked,
Odoo reveals a right-sidebar, filled with drag-and-drop _Building Blocks_ that
are packed with various features, options, and design elements.

Then, to add a _subscription field_ for a specific mailing list onto a
website, drag-and-drop any of the Newsletter options (Newsletter Block,
Newsletter Popup, or Newsletter).

Tip

To quickly locate the Newsletter building block options (while in Edit mode on
the front-end of the website), type `Newsletter` into the search bar, located
in the right sidebar, under the Blocks tab, and Odoo reveals the three
different Newsletter block options.

![View of how to quickly search for Newsletter blocks in the Odoo Website
application.](../../../_images/newsletter-block-search.png)

When a Newsletter block is dragged onto the body of the website, Odoo reveals
a pop-up window, in which the desired mailing list is selected from a drop-
down menu (and linked) to this block on the website.

![View of the add mailing list subscription pop-up on an Odoo
Website.](../../../_images/add-mailing-list-popup-website.png)

  * Newsletter Block \- Adds a block onto the webpage, providing visitors with the option to add their email address to this mailing list, and subscribe to future communications.

Here’s an example of a Newsletter Block.

![View of a sample newsletter block in the Odoo Website
application.](../../../_images/newsletter-block-sample.png)

  * Newsletter Popup \- Tells Odoo to reveal a subscription pop-up window to occur at a certain part of the webpage. When the visitor scrolls to this predetermined point, a pop-up subscription window appears, asking for their email address to subscribe to the mailing list. The pop-up window can be edited further to fit any business needs.

Here’s an example of a Newsletter Popup.

![View of a sample newsletter pop-up sample on an Odoo
Website.](../../../_images/newsletter-popup-sample.png)

  * Newsletter \- Provides visitors with a simple field to add their email address to the mailing list, and subscribe to future mailings in the footer (or anywhere else on the page).

Here’s an example of a Newsletter dynamic block.

![View of a Newsletter dynamic block on an Odoo
Website.](../../../_images/newsletter-footer-block-sample.png)

See also

  * [Email marketing](../email_marketing.html)

  * [Manage unsubscriptions (Blacklist)](unsubscriptions.html)

