# Blog

**Odoo Blog** allows you to create and manage blog posts on your website to
engage your audience and build a community.

Tip

If the Blog module is not yet installed, click +New on the website builder,
select Blog Post, and click Install.

## Creating a blog

To create or edit a blog, go to Website ‣ Configuration ‣ Blogs: Blogs. Click
New, and enter the Blog Name and the Blog Subtitle.

The Blog menu item is added to your website’s menu the first time you create a
blog and gathers all your blogs.

## Adding a blog post

Go to your website, click +New in the top-right corner, and select Blog Post.
In the pop-up, **select the blog** where the post should appear, write the
post’s Title, and Save. You can then write the post’s content and customize
the page using the website builder.

Tip

  * Illustrate your articles with copyright-free images from [Unsplash](../general/integrations/unsplash.html).

  * Type `/` in the text editor to format and add elements to your text.

Important

Don’t forget to toggle the Unpublished switch in the top-right corner to
publish your post.

## Using tags

Tags let visitors filter all posts sharing the same tag. By default, they are
displayed at the bottom of posts, but can also be displayed on the blog’s main
page. To do so, click Edit ‣ Customize and enable the Sidebar. By default, the
sidebar’s Tags List is enabled.

To create a tag, go to Website ‣ Configuration ‣ Blogs: Tags and click New.
Fill in the:

  * Name

  * Category: tag categories let you group tags displayed on the sidebar by theme.

  * Used in: to apply the tag to existing blog posts, click Add a line, select the posts, and click Select.

You can add and create tags directly from posts by clicking Edit ‣ Customize
and select the post’s cover. Under Tags, click Choose a record…, and select or
create a tag.

![Adding a tag to a blog post](../../_images/create-tag.png)

Note

To manage tag categories, go to Website ‣ Configuration ‣ Blogs: Tag
Categories.

## Customizing blog homepages

Customize the content of blog homepages by opening a blog homepage and
clicking Edit ‣ Customize.

Note

Settings apply to **all** blogs homepages.

Top Banner: Name/Latest Post displays the title of the latest post on the top
banner, while Drop Zone for Building Blocks removes the top banner and lets
you use any building block instead.

Layout: organizes posts as a Grid or List.

  * Cards: adds a _card_ effect.

  * Increase Readability: improves the text’s readability.

Sidebar: displays a sidebar containing an About us section.

  * Archives: allows visitors to select a month and filter all posts created during that month.

  * Follow Us: displays links to your social media networks. They can be configured using the Social Media building block somewhere on your website.

  * Tags List: displays all tags related to a blog. Visitors can select a tag to filter all related posts.

Posts List: Cover displays the posts’ images, and No Cover hides them.

  * Author: displays the posts’ authors.

  * Comments/Views Stats: displays the posts’ number of comments and views.

  * Teaser & Tags: displays the posts’ first sentences and tags.

## Customizing blog posts

Customize posts by opening a blog post and clicking Edit ‣ Customize.

Note

Settings apply to **all** posts.

Layout: Title Inside Cover displays the title inside the cover image, and
Title above Cover displays it above.

  * Increase Readability: increases the text’s readability.

Sidebar: displays the Sidebar and additional options:

  * Archive: allows visitors to select a month and filter all posts created during that month.

  * Author: displays the post’s author and creation date.

  * Blog List: displays links to all your blogs.

  * Share Links: displays share buttons to several social networks.

  * Tags: displays the post’s tags.

Breadcrumb: displays the path to the post.

Bottom: Next Article displays the next post at the bottom, and Comments enable
visitors to comment on the post.

Select To Tweet: visitors are offered to tweet the text they select.

Tip

Use [Plausible](website/reporting/analytics.html#analytics-plausible) to keep
track of the traffic on your blog.

