# Live Chat

Odoo _Live Chat_ allows users to communicate with website visitors in real
time. With _Live Chat_ , leads can be qualified for their sales potential,
support questions can be answered quickly, and issues can be directed to the
appropriate team for further investigation (or follow up). _Live Chat_ also
provides the opportunity for instant feedback from customers.

## Enable Live Chat

In order to enable _Live Chat_ , the _Live Chat_ application needs to be
installed. This can be done in one of two ways.

  * Go to Apps ‚Ä£ Live Chat and click Install.

  * In the Website application, go to Configuration ‚Ä£ Settings, scroll to the Email & Marketing section, check the box next to Livechat, and click Save.

![View of the settings page and the live chat feature for Odoo Live
Chat.](../../_images/enable-setting.png)

After the Live Chat application is installed, a live chat Channel will be
created by default and automatically selected in the drop-down.

## Create a new live chat channel

To create a new live chat _Channel_ , go to Main Odoo Dashboard ‚Ä£ Live Chat
app ‚Ä£ New. This will open a blank channel detail form. Enter the name of the
new channel in the Channel Name field.

![View of a live chat channel form for Odoo Live Chat.](../../_images/open-
channel.png)

To configure the remaining tabs on the channel detail form (Operators,
Options, Channel Rules, and Widgets), follow the steps below.

### Operators

_Operators_ are the users who will respond to live chat requests from
customers. When a user is added as an operator in a live chat channel, they
will be able to receive chats from website visitors wherever they are in the
database. Chat windows will open in the bottom right corner of the screen.

![View of a live chat pop up window in an Odoo database.](../../_images/pop-
up1.png)

The user who originally created the live chat channel will be added as an
operator by default.

To add additional users, navigate back to the Website Live Chat Channels
dashboard via the breadcrumbs and click on the appropriate Live Chat Channel.
Then, on the channel detail form, under the Operators tab, click ADD to reveal
an Add: Operators pop-up window.

In the pop-up window, search for the desired user(s). Then, click the checkbox
next to the user(s) to be added, and click SELECT.

New operators can be created and added to the list directly from this pop-up,
as well, by clicking New, and filling out the Create Operators pop-up form.
When the form is complete, click SAVE & CLOSE (or SAVE & NEW for multiple
record creations).

Note

Current operators can be edited (or removed) by clicking on their respective
boxes in the Operators tab, which reveals a separate Open: Operators pop-up.
In that pop-up, adjust any information as needed, and click Save, or click
Remove to remove that operator from the channel.

### Options

The Options tab on the live chat channel details form contains the visual and
text settings for the live chat window.

#### Livechat button

The _Livechat Button_ is the icon that appears in the bottom corner of the
website.

![View of an Odoo website emphasizing the livechat
button.](../../_images/chat-button.png)

Change the text in the Text of the Button field to update the greeting
displayed in the text bubble when the live chat button appears on the website.

Change the Livechat Button Color by clicking a color bubble to open the color
selection window. Click the üîÑ (refresh) icon to the right of the color bubbles
to reset the colors to the default selection.

Tip

Color selection, for the button or header, can be made manually using a slider
or through RGB, HSL, or HEX color code entries from the pop-up color selection
window that appears when either of the color bubbles are clicked. Different
options will be available, depending on your operating system.

#### Livechat window

The _Livechat Window_ is the space where the live chat conversation with
website visitors takes place.

Edit the Welcome Message to change the message a visitor sees when they open a
new chat session. This message will appear as though it is sent by a live chat
operator, and acts as both a greeting and an invitation to continue the
conversation.

Edit the Chat Input Placeholder to alter the text that appears in the box
where visitors will type their replies.

The _Channel Header_ is the colored bar at the top of the chat window. The
Channel Header Color can be changed following the same steps as the _Livechat
Button Color_ above.

![../../_images/chat-window.png](../../_images/chat-window.png)

The Livechat Window with a purple header. The chat input placeholder reads
‚ÄúAsk Something‚Ä¶‚Äù

### Channel rules

The Channel Rules tab on the live chat channel details form determines when
the _Live Chat Window_ opens on the website, by configuring when a URL Regex
action is triggered (e.g., a page visit).

To create a new channel rule, click Add a line. This opens the Open: Rules
pop-up.

![View of a channel's rules form for Odoo Live Chat.](../../_images/create-
rules.png)

#### Create new rules

Fill out the fields on the Open: Rules pop-up as instructed below, then click
Save.

Live Chat ButtonChatbotURL RegexOpen automatically timerCountry

The _Livechat Button_ is the icon that appears in the bottom corner of the
website. Select from one of the following display options:

  * Show displays the chat button on the page(s).

  * Show with notification displays the chat button, as well as a floating text bubble next to the button.

  * Open automatically displays the button and automatically opens the chat window after a specified amount of time (designated in the Open automatically timer field).

  * Hide hides the chat button on the page(s).

If a _Chatbot_ will be included on this channel, select it from the dropdown.
If the chatbot will only be active when no operators are active, check the box
labeled Enabled only if no operator.

In the URL Regex field, input the relative URL of the page where the chat
button should appear.

This field designates the amount of time (in seconds) a page will be open
before the chat window will open. If the Livechat Button for this rule is not
set to Open automatically, this field will be ignored.

If this channel should only be available to site visitors in specific
countries, add them to the Country field. If this field is left blank, the
channel will be available to all site visitors, regardless of location.

Note

In order to track the geographical location of visitors, GeoIP must be
installed on the database. While this feature is installed by default on _Odoo
Online_ , _On-Premise_ databases will require additional [setup
steps](../../administration/on_premise/geo_ip.html).

### Widget

The Widget tab on the live chat channel details form provides the shortcode
for an embeddable website widget. This code can be added to a website to
provide access to a live chat window.

The live chat widget can be added to websites created through Odoo by
navigating to the Website ‚Ä£ Configuration ‚Ä£ Settings. Then scroll to the
Livechat section, and select the channel to add to the site. Click Save to
apply.

To add the widget to a website created on a third-party platform, click the
first COPY button on the Widget tab and paste the code into the `<head>` tag
on the site.

Likewise, to send a live chat session to a customer, click the second COPY
button on the Widget tab. This link can be sent directly to a customer, and
once they click the link, it will open a new chat.

![View of the widget tab for Odoo Live Chat.](../../_images/widget-code.png)

## Participate in a conversation

As explained above, _operators_ are the users who will respond to live chat
requests from customers. The information below outlines the necessary steps
for operators participating in live chat conversations on an Odoo database.

### Set an online chat name

Before participating in a live chat, operators should update their _Online
Chat Name_. This is the name that will be displayed to site visitors in the
live chat conversation.

To update the Online Chat Name, click on the user name in the upper-right
corner of any page in the database. Select My Profile to open the Profile
page. On the right side of the Preferences tab, locate the Online Chat Name
field and enter the preferred name.

![View of the My Profile option in Odoo.](../../_images/my-profile.png)

If a users Online Chat Name is not set, the name displayed will default to the
User Name.

Example

A user has their full name as their User Name, but they do not want to include
their last name in a live chat conversation. They would then set their Online
Chat Name to include only their first name.

![View of user profile in Odoo, emphasizing the Online Chat name
field.](../../_images/online-chat-name.png)

### Join or leave a channel

To join a live chat channel, go to the Live Chat app and click the JOIN button
on the kanban card for the appropriate channel.

Any channel where the user is currently active will show a LEAVE button. Click
this button to disconnect from the channel.

![View of a channel form and the option to join a channel for Odoo Live
Chat.](../../_images/leave-channel.png)

Important

 _Operators_ that do not show any activity in Odoo for more than thirty
minutes will be considered disconnected, and subsequently removed from the
channel.

### Manage live chat requests

When an operator is active in a channel, chat windows will open in the bottom
right corner of the screen, no matter where they are in the database. They can
participate in conversations without leaving their current location.

Tip

Conversations can also be accessed by clicking the Conversations icon in the
menu bar.

![View of the menu bar in Odoo emphasizing the conversations
icon.](../../_images/menu-bar.png)

Live chat conversations can also be viewed by navigating to Dashboard ‚Ä£
Discuss. New conversations will appear in bold under the LIVECHAT heading
along the left panel.

![View of the discuss application with a message sent through live chat in
Odoo.](../../_images/managing-chat-responses.png)

Click on a conversation in the left panel to select it. This will open the
conversation. From this view, an operator can participate in the chat the same
as they would in the normal chat window.

See also

  * [Get Started with Discuss](../productivity/discuss.html)

  * [Commands and canned responses](livechat/responses.html)

  * [Ratings](livechat/ratings.html)
  * [Commands and canned responses](livechat/responses.html)
  * [Chatbots](livechat/chatbots.html)

