# In-app purchases (IAP)

In-app purchases (IAP) are optional services that enhance Odoo databases. Each
service provides its own specific features and functionality. A full list of
services is available on the [Odoo IAP Catalog](https://iap.odoo.com/iap/all-
in-app-services).

![The IAP catalog with various services available on
IAP.Odoo.com.](../../_images/iap.png)

Example

The SMS service sends text messages to contacts directly from the database,
and the Documents Digitization service digitizes scanned or PDF vendor bills,
expenses, and resumes with optical character recognition (OCR) and artificial
intelligence (AI).

IAP services do **not** need to be configured or set up before use. Odoo users
can simply click on the service in the app to activate it. However, each
service requires its own prepaid credits, and when they run out, users
**must** buy more in order to keep using it.

Note

Enterprise Odoo users with a valid subscription get free credits to test IAP
features before deciding to purchase more credits for the database. This
includes demo/training databases, educational databases, and one-app-free
databases.

## IAP services

IAP services are provided by Odoo, as well as third-parties, and have a wide
range of uses.

The following IAP services are offered by Odoo:

  * Documents Digitization: digitizes scanned or PDF vendor bills, expenses, and resumes with OCR and AI.

  * Partner Autocomplete: automatically populates contact records with corporate data.

  * SMS: sends SMS text messages to contacts directly from the database.

  * Lead Generation: generates leads based on a set of criteria, and converts web visitors into quality leads and opportunities.

  * Snailmail: sends customer invoices and follow-up reports by post, worldwide.

  * Signer identification with itsme¬ÆÔ∏è: ask document signatories in Odoo _Sign_ to provide their identity using the _itsme¬Æ_ identity platform, which is available in Belgium and the Netherlands.

For more information on every service currently available (offered from
developers other than Odoo), visit the [Odoo IAP
Catalog](https://iap.odoo.com/iap/all-in-app-services).

### Use IAP services

IAP services are automatically integrated with Odoo, and do **not** require
users to configure any settings. To use a service, simply interact with it
wherever it appears in the database.

Example

The following flow focuses on the _SMS_ IAP service being used from a
contact‚Äôs record.

This can be done by clicking the üì± SMS icon within the database.

![The SMS icon on a typical contact information form located within an Odoo
database.](../../_images/sms-icon.png)

One way to utilize the _SMS_ IAP service with Odoo is showcased in the
following steps:

First, navigate to the Contacts application, and click on a contact with a
mobile phone number entered in either the Phone or Mobile field of the contact
form.

Next, find the üì± SMS icon that appears to the right of the Phone or Mobile
fields. Click the üì± SMS icon, and a Send SMS Text Message pop-up window
appears.

Type a message in the Message field of the pop-up window. Then, click the Send
SMS button. Odoo then sends the message, via SMS, to the contact, and logs
what was sent in the _chatter_ of the contact‚Äôs form.

Upon sending the SMS message, the prepaid credits for the _SMS_ IAP service
are automatically deducted from the existing credits. If there are not enough
credits to send the message, Odoo prompts the user to purchase more.

See also

For more information on how to use various IAP services, and for more in-depth
instructions related to SMS functionality in Odoo, review the documentation
below:

  * [Lead mining](../sales/crm/acquire_leads/lead_mining.html)

  * [Enrich your contacts base with Partner Autocomplete](../sales/crm/optimize/partner_autocomplete.html)

  * [SMS essentials](../marketing/sms_marketing/essentials/sms_essentials.html)

## IAP credits

Every time an IAP service is used, the prepaid credits for that service are
spent. Odoo prompts the purchase of more credits when there are not enough
credits left to continue using a service. Email alerts can also be set up for
when credits are low.

Credits are purchased in _Packs_ from the [Odoo IAP
Catalog](https://iap.odoo.com/iap/all-in-app-services), and pricing is
specific to each service.

Example

The [SMS service](https://iap.odoo.com/iap/in-app-services/1) has four packs
available, in denominations of:

  * Starter Pack: 10 credits

  * Standard Pack: 100 credits

  * Advanced Pack: 500 credits

  * Expert Pack: 1,000 credits

![Four different packs of credits for the SMS IAP
service.](../../_images/packs.png)

The number of credits consumed depends on the length of the SMS and the
country of destination.

For more information, refer to the [SMS Pricing and
FAQ](../marketing/sms_marketing/pricing/pricing_and_faq.html) documentation.

### Buy credits

If there are not enough credits to perform a task, the database automatically
prompts the purchase of more credits.

Users can check the current balance of credits for each service, and manually
purchase more credits, by navigating to the Settings app ‚Ä£ Contacts section,
and beneath the Odoo IAP setting, click View My Services.

Doing so reveals a My Services page, listing the various IAP services in the
database. From here, click an IAP service to open its Account Information
page, where additional credits can be purchased.

#### Manually buy credits

To manually buy credits in Odoo, follow these steps:

First, go to the Settings application and type `IAP` in the Search‚Ä¶ bar.
Alternatively users can scroll down to the Contacts section. Under the
Contacts section, where it says Odoo IAP, click View My Services.

![The Settings app showing the Odoo IAP heading and View My Services
button.](../../_images/view-services.png)

Doing so reveals an IAP Account page, listing the various IAP services in the
database. From here, click an IAP service to open details about it; additional
credits can be purchased from here.

On the following page, click the Buy Credit button. Doing so loads a Buy
Credits for (IAP Account) page in a new tab. From here, click Buy on the
desired pack of credits. Then, follow the prompts to enter payment details,
and confirm the order.

![The SMS service page on IAP.Odoo.com with four packs of credits available
for purchase.](../../_images/buy-pack.png)

Once the transaction is complete, the credits are available for use in the
database.

#### Low-credit notification

It is possible to be notified when credits are low, in order to avoid running
out of credits, while using an IAP service. To do that, follow this process:

Go to the Settings application, and type `IAP` in the Search‚Ä¶ bar. Under the
Contacts section, where it says Odoo IAP, click View My Services.

The available IAP accounts appear in a list view on the IAP Account page. From
here, click on the desired IAP account to view that service‚Äôs details.

On the details page, tick the Receive threshold warning checkbox. Doing so
reveals two fields on the form: Warning Threshold and Contact Email.

In the Warning Threshold field, enter an amount of credits Odoo should use as
the minimum threshold for this service. In the Contact Email field, enter the
email address that receives the notification.

Odoo sends a low-credit alert to the Contact Email when the balance of credits
falls below the amount listed as the Warning Threshold.

  *[IAP]: In-app purchases

