# How-to guides

  * [Write lean easy-to-maintain CSS](howtos/scss_tips.html)
  * [Customize a field](howtos/javascript_field.html)
  * [Customize a view type](howtos/javascript_view.html)
  * [Create a client action](howtos/javascript_client_action.html)
  * [Web Services](howtos/web_services.html)
  * [Multi-company Guidelines](howtos/company.html)
  * [Create customized reports](howtos/create_reports.html)
  * [Accounting localization](howtos/accounting_localization.html)
  * [Translating Modules](howtos/translations.html)
  * [Website themes](howtos/website_themes.html)
    * [Setup](howtos/website_themes/setup.html)
    * [Theming](howtos/website_themes/theming.html)
    * [Layout](howtos/website_themes/layout.html)
    * [Navigation](howtos/website_themes/navigation.html)
    * [Pages](howtos/website_themes/pages.html)
    * [Building blocks](howtos/website_themes/building_blocks.html)
    * [Shapes](howtos/website_themes/shapes.html)
    * [Gradients](howtos/website_themes/gradients.html)
    * [Animations](howtos/website_themes/animations.html)
    * [Forms](howtos/website_themes/forms.html)
    * [Translations](howtos/website_themes/translations.html)
    * [Going live](howtos/website_themes/going_live.html)
  * [Connect with a device](howtos/connect_device.html)
  * [Upgrade a customized database](howtos/upgrade_custom_db.html)

#### [Write lean easy-to-maintain CSSFollow this guide to keep the technical
debt of your CSS code under control. ](howtos/scss_tips.html)#### [Customize a
fieldLearn how to customize field components in the Odoo JavaScript web
framework. ](howtos/javascript_field.html)#### [Customize a view typeLearn how
to customize view types in the Odoo JavaScript web framework.
](howtos/javascript_view.html)#### [Create a client actionLearn how to create
client actions in the Odoo JavaScript web framework.
](howtos/javascript_client_action.html)#### [Web servicesLearn more about
Odooâ€™s web services. ](howtos/web_services.html)#### [Multi-company
guidelinesLearn how to manage multiple companies and deal with the records-
related specificities of a multi-company environment.
](howtos/company.html)#### [Create customized reportsLearn how to create
customized reports with SQL Views. ](howtos/create_reports.html)####
[Accounting localizationLearn how to build a localization module, create bank
operation models and dynamic reports.
](howtos/accounting_localization.html)#### [Translating modulesLearn how to
provide translation abilities to your module. ](howtos/translations.html)####
[Website themesLearn how to customize your website by creating a custom theme.
](howtos/website_themes.html)#### [Connect with a deviceLearn how to enable a
module to detect and communicate with an IoT device.
](howtos/connect_device.html)#### [Upgrade a customized databaseLearn how to
upgrade a customized database, as well as the code and data of its custom
modules. ](howtos/upgrade_custom_db.html)

