# Inventory valuation configuration

All of a company’s stock on-hand contributes to the valuation of its
inventory. That value should be reflected in the company’s accounting records
to accurately show the value of the company and all of its assets.

By default, Odoo uses a periodic inventory valuation (also known as manual
inventory valuation). This method implies that the accounting team posts
journal entries based on the physical inventory of the company, and that
warehouse employees take the time to count the stock. In Odoo, this method is
reflected inside each product category, where the Costing Method field will be
set to `Standard Price` by default, and the Inventory Valuation field will be
set to `Manual`.

![The Inventory Valuation fields are located on the Product Categories
form.](../../../../../_images/inventory-valuation-fields.png)

Alternatively, automated inventory valuation is an integrated valuation method
that updates the inventory value in real-time by creating journal entries
whenever there are stock moves initiated between locations in a company’s
inventory.

Note

Automated inventory valuation is a method recommended for expert accountants,
given the extra steps involved in journal entry configuration. Even after the
initial setup, the method will need to be periodically checked to ensure
accuracy, and adjustments may be needed on an ongoing basis depending on the
needs and priorities of the business.

## Types of accounting

Accounting entries will depend on the accounting mode: _Continental_ or
_Anglo-Saxon_.

Tip

Verify the accounting mode by activating the [Developer mode (debug
mode)](../../../../general/developer_mode.html#developer-mode) and navigating
to Accounting app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings.

Then, in the search bar, look for Anglo-Saxon Accounting, to see if the
feature is enabled. If it is **not** enabled, Continental accounting mode is
in use.

![Show the Anglo-Saxon accounting mode feature.](../../../../../_images/anglo-
saxon.png)

In _Anglo-Saxon_ accounting, the costs of goods sold (COGS) are reported when
products are sold or delivered. This means that the cost of a good is only
recorded as an expense when a customer is invoiced for a product. So for
**manual** valuation method, set the Expense Account to `Stock Valuation` for
the current asset type; for **automatic** valuation method, set the the
Expense Account to an _Expenses_ or a _Cost of Revenue_ type (e.g. `Cost of
Production`, `Cost of Goods Sold`, etc.).

In _Continental_ accounting, the cost of a good is reported as soon as a
product is received into stock. Because of this, the Expense Account can be
set to **either** _Expenses_ or a _Cost of Revenue_ type, however, it is more
commonly set to an _Expenses_ account.

See also

Details about configuring Expense and Stock accounts

## Configuration

Make changes to inventory valuation options by navigating to Inventory app ‣
Configuration ‣ Product Categories. In the Inventory Valuation section, select
the desired Costing Method and Inventory Valuation options.

Note

It is possible to use different valuation settings for different product
categories.

![Show inventory valuation configuration
options.](../../../../../_images/config-inventory-valuation.png)

### Costing method

From the product category’s configuration page, choose the desired Costing
Method:

  * Standard Price: the default costing method in Odoo. The cost of the product is manually defined on the product form, and this cost is used to compute the valuation. Even if the purchase price on a purchase order differs, the valuation will still use the cost defined on the product form.

  * Average Cost (AVCO): calculates the valuation of a product based on the average cost of that product, divided by the total number of available stock on-hand. With this costing method, inventory valuation is _dynamic_ , and constantly adjusts based on the purchase price of products.

Note

When choosing Average Cost (AVCO) as the Costing Method, changing the
numerical value in the Cost field for products in the respective product
category creates a new record in the _Inventory Valuation_ report to adjust
the value of the product. The Cost amount will then automatically update based
on the average purchase price both of inventory on hand and the costs
accumulated from validated purchase orders.

  * First In First Out (FIFO): tracks the costs of incoming and outgoing items in real-time and uses the real price of the products to change the valuation. The oldest purchase price is used as the cost for the next good sold until an entire lot of that product is sold. When the next inventory lot moves up in the queue, an updated product cost is used based on the valuation of that specific lot. This method is arguably the most accurate inventory valuation method for a variety of reasons, however, it is highly sensitive to input data and human error.

Warning

Changing the costing method greatly impacts inventory valuation. It is highly
recommended to consult an accountant first before making any adjustments here.

See also

[Using inventory valuation](using_inventory_valuation.html)

When the Costing Method is changed, products already in stock that were using
the Standard costing method **do not** change value; rather, the existing
units keep their value, and any product moves from then on affect the average
cost, and the cost of the product will change. If the value in the Cost field
on a product form is changed manually, Odoo will generate a corresponding
record in the _Inventory Valuation_ report.

### Inventory valuation

Inventory valuation in Odoo can be set to be updated manually or
automatically. While _Expense_ accounts apply to both, the _Stock Input_ and
_Stock Output_ accounts are only used for automated valuation.

Refer to the Expense and Stock input/output sections for details on
configuring each account type.

#### Expense account

To configure the _expense account_ , go to the Account Properties section of
the intended product category (Inventory app ‣ Configuration ‣ Product
Categories). Then, choose an existing account from the Expense Account drop-
down menu.

To ensure the chosen account is the correct Type, click the __(right arrow)
icon to the right of the account. Then, set the account type based on the
information below.

Anglo-SaxonContinental

AutomatedManual

In Anglo-Saxon accounting for automated inventory valuation, set the Expense
Account to the `Expenses` account. Then, click the __(right arrow) icon to the
right of the account.

In the pop-up window, choose Expenses or Cost of Revenue from the Type drop-
down menu.

![Show **Expense Account** field, and external link
icon.](../../../../../_images/external-link1.png)

To configure the Expense Account, choose Stock Valuation from the field’s
drop-down menu. Verify the account’s type by clicking the __(right arrow)
icon, and then ensure the Type is Current Assets.

![Show the **Expense Account** field.](../../../../../_images/manual-anglo-
saxon-expense.png)

AutomatedManual

Set the Expense Account to the Expenses or Cost of Revenue account type.

Set the Expense Account to the Expenses or Cost of Revenue account type.

#### Stock input/output (automated only)

To configure the Stock Input Account and Stock Output Account, go to Inventory
app ‣ Configuration ‣ Product Categories and select the desired product
category.

In the Inventory Valuation field, select Automated. Doing so makes the Account
Stock Properties section appear. These accounts are defined as follows:

  * Stock Valuation Account: when automated inventory valuation is enabled on a product, this account will hold the current value of the products.

  * Stock Journal: accounting journal where entries are automatically posted when a product’s inventory valuation changes.

  * Stock Input Account: counterpart journal items for all incoming stock moves will be posted in this account, unless there is a specific valuation account set on the source location. This is the default value for all products in a given category, and can also be set directly on each product.

  * Stock Output Account: counterpart journal items for all outgoing stock moves will be posted in this account, unless there is a specific valuation account set on the destination location. This is the default value for all products in a given category, and can also be set directly on each product.

Anglo-SaxonContinental

In Anglo-Saxon accounting, the Stock Input Account and Stock Output Account
are set to _different_ Current Assets accounts. This way, delivering products
and invoicing the customer balance the _Stock Output_ account, while receiving
products and billing vendors balance the _Stock Input_ account.

To modify the account type, go to the click the __(right arrow) icon to the
right of the stock input/output account. In the pop-up window, choose Current
Assets from the Type drop-down menu.

![Display account setup page, highlighting the **Type**
field.](../../../../../_images/account-type.png)

The _Stock Input_ account is set to `Stock Interim (Received)`, a _Current
Asset_ account type.

In Continental accounting, the Stock Input Account and Stock Output Account
are set to **the same** Current Assets account. That way, one account can be
balanced when items are bought and sold.

Example

The stock input and output accounts are both set to `Stock Interim
(Received)`, a Current Assets account type. They can also be set to the `Stock
Interim (Delivered)`, as long as the input and output accounts are assigned to
the **same** account.

![Show the Stock Input and Output
accounts.](../../../../../_images/continental-stock-account.png)

## Inventory valuation reporting

To start, go to Accounting ‣ Reporting ‣ Balance Sheet. At the top of the
dashboard, change the As of field value to Today, and adjust the filtering
Options to Unfold All in order to see all of the latest data displayed, all at
once.

See also

[Accounting cheat
sheet](../../../../finance/accounting/get_started/cheat_sheet.html)

Under the parent Current Assets line item, look for the nested Stock Valuation
Account line item, where the total valuation of all of the inventory on hand
is displayed.

Access more specific information with the Stock Valuation Account drop-down
menu, by selecting either the General Ledger to see an itemized view of all of
the journal entries, or by selecting Journal Items to review all of the
individualized journal entries that were submitted to the account. As well,
annotations to the Balance Sheet can be added by choosing Annotate, filling in
the text box, and clicking Save.

![See the full inventory valuation breakdown in Odoo Accounting
app.](../../../../../_images/stock-valuation-breakdown-in-accounting.png)

