# Scrap inventory

In some cases, a product in inventory may be damaged or found to be defective.
If it is not possible to repair or return the product, Odoo _Inventory_ allows
users to scrap it, ensuring that usable inventory counts remain accurate.

Tip

Scrap orders can be viewed by navigating to Inventory ‣ Operations ‣ Scrap.
Each scrap order shows the date and time the order was created, along with the
product and quantity that was scrapped.

To view the total quantity of each item scrapped, navigate to Inventory ‣
Configuration ‣ Locations. Remove the Internal filter from the Search… bar to
display virtual locations. Finally, select the Virtual Locations/Scrap
location.

By default, scrapping a product removes it from physical inventory, and places
it in a virtual location titled _Virtual Locations/Scrap_. A virtual location
is **not** a physical space, but rather a designation in Odoo that is used to
track items that are no longer in physical inventory.

Learn more

For more information about virtual locations, see the documentation about the
different types of [locations](warehouses_locations.html#inventory-management-
difference-warehouse-location).

## Scrap from stock

To scrap a product located in inventory, begin by navigating to Inventory ‣
Operations ‣ Scrap. On the Scrap Orders page, click Create to configure a new
scrap order.

On the scrap order, select the product being scrapped from the Product drop-
down menu, then enter the quantity in the Quantity field. The Source Location
defaults to the location where the product is stored, and the Scrap Location
defaults to Virtual Locations/Scrap, but either of these can be changed by
selecting a different location from their respective drop-down menus.

![A new scrap order.](../../../../../_images/scrap-order.png)

Finally, click Validate to scrap the product. The on-hand inventory count for
the scrapped product updates to subtract the scrapped quantity.

## Scrap from a receipt, transfer, or delivery

It is also possible to scrap products during the receipt, transfer, and
delivery operations. This can be necessary if any products are found to be
defective when receiving them into inventory, transferring them from one
location to another, or preparing them for delivery.

To scrap a product during the receipt, transfer, or delivery operations, begin
by navigating to the Inventory app. On the Overview page, select the # TO
PROCESS button on the Receipts, Internal Transfers, or Delivery Orders card,
depending on the type of operation the product is being scrapped from.

Note

For the Internal Transfers card to appear on the Overview page of the
Inventory app, the Storage Locations setting must be enabled. To do so,
navigate to Configuration ‣ Settings, then enable the checkbox next to Storage
Locations under the Warehouse heading.

Alternatively, a list of all delivery orders, receipts, and transfers can be
viewed by navigating to Inventory ‣ Operations ‣ Transfers.

Next, open a delivery order, receipt, or transfer from the corresponding page
by clicking on it. A Scrap button appears at the top of the page. Click it to
open the Scrap pop-up window.

![The scrap pop-up in the Inventory app.](../../../../../_images/scrap-pop-
up.png)

Important

The Scrap button will only appear on a receipt that has been validated. This
is because Odoo only allows products to be scrapped once they have been
entered into inventory.

On the Scrap pop-up window, select the product being scrapped from the Product
drop-down menu. Then, enter the quantity in the Quantity field.

The Source Location defaults to the location where the product is stored, and
the Scrap Location defaults to Virtual Locations/Scrap, but either of these
can be changed by selecting a different location from their respective drop-
down menus.

Finally, click Done to scrap the product. After doing so, the Scrap pop-up
window disappears and a Scraps smart button appears in the top right of the
page. Click it to view all of the scrap orders created from that operation.

![The Scraps smart button.](../../../../../_images/scraps-smart-button.png)

