# Routes and push/pull rules

In inventory management, the supply chain strategy determines when products
should be purchased/manufactured, delivered to distribution centers, and made
available to the retail channel.

In Odoo, a product’s supply chain strategy can be configured using _Routes_ ,
which feature _Pull and Push Rules_. Once everything is properly configured,
the Inventory app can automatically generate transfers following the
configured push/pull rules.

## Inside the warehouse

In a generic warehouse, there are receiving docks, a quality control area,
storage locations, picking and packing areas, and shipping docks. All products
go through all these locations. As the products move through the locations,
each location triggers the products’ specified route and rules.

![View of a generic warehouse with stock and quality control
area.](../../../../../_images/stock-example.png)

In this example, vendor trucks unload pallets of ordered products at the
receiving docks. Operators then scan the products in the receiving area.
Depending on the product’s route and rules, some of these products are sent to
a quality control area (for example, products that are components used in the
manufacturing process), while others are directly stored in their respective
locations.

![View of a generic push to rule when receiving
products.](../../../../../_images/push-to-rule-example.png)

Here is an example of a fulfillment route. In the morning, items are picked
for all the orders that need to be prepared during the day. These items are
picked from storage locations and moved to the picking area, close to where
the orders are packed. Then, the orders are packed in their respective boxes,
and conveyor belts bring them to the shipping docks, ready to be delivered to
customers.

![View of a generic pull from rule when preparing
deliveries.](../../../../../_images/pull-from-rule-example.png)

## Pull rules

With _Pull Rules_ , a demand for some products triggers procurements, while
_Push Rules_ are triggered by products arriving in a specific location.

Pull Rules are used to fulfill a sales order. Odoo generates a need at the
_Customer Location_ for each product in the order. Because pull rules are
triggered by a need, Odoo looks for a pull rule defined on the _Customer
Location_.

In this case, a “delivery order” pull rule that transfers products from the
_Shipping Area_ to the _Customer Location_ is found, and a transfer between
the two locations is created.

Then, Odoo finds another pull rule that tries to fulfill the need for the
_Shipping Area_ : the “packing” rule that transfers products from the _Packing
Area_ to the _Shipping Area_. Finally, other pull rules are triggered until a
transfer between the _Stock_ and the _Picking Area_ is created.

Note

All these product transfers are automatically generated by Odoo based on the
pull rules, starting from the end (the customer location) and going backward
(the stock warehouse). While working, the operator processes these transfers
in the opposite order: first the picking, then the packing, and finally the
delivery order.

## Push rules

On the other hand, _Push Rules_ are much easier to understand. Instead of
generating documents based on needs, they are triggered in real time when
products arrive in a specific location. Push rules basically say: “when a
product arrives at a specific location, move it to another location.”

An example of a push rule would be: when a product arrives in the _Receipt
Area_ , move it to the _Storage Location_. As different push rules can be
applied to different products, the user can assign different storage locations
for different products.

Another push rule could be: when products arrive at a location, move them to
the _Quality Control Area_. Then, once the quality check is done, move them to
their _Storage Location_.

Note

Push rules can only be triggered if there are no pull rules that have already
generated the product transfers.

Important

Sets of push/pull rules like those are called _Routes_. The grouping on the
rule decides if products are grouped in the same transfer or not. For example,
during the picking operation, all orders and their products are grouped in one
transfer, whereas the packing operation respects the grouping per customer
order.

## Use routes and rules

Since _Routes_ are a collection of _Push and Pull Rules_ , Odoo helps you
manage advanced route configurations such as:

  * Manage product manufacturing chains.

  * Manage default locations per product.

  * Define routes within the stock warehouse according to business needs, such as quality control, after-sales services, or supplier returns.

  * Help rental management by generating automated return moves for rented products.

To configure a route for a product, first, open the Inventory application and
go to Configuration ‣ Settings. Then, in the Warehouse section, enable the
Multi-Step Routes feature and click Save.

![Activate the Multi-Step Routes feature in Odoo
Inventory.](../../../../../_images/multi-steps-routes-feature.png)

Note

The Storage Locations feature is automatically activated with the Multi-Step
Routes feature.

Once this first step is completed, the user can use pre-configured routes that
come with Odoo, or they can create custom routes.

### Pre-configured routes

To access Odoo’s pre-configured routes, go to Inventory ‣ Configuration ‣
Warehouses. Then, open a warehouse form. In the Warehouse Configuration tab,
the user can view the warehouse’s pre-configured routes for Incoming Shipments
and Outgoing Shipments.

![A pre-configured warehouse in Odoo
Inventory.](../../../../../_images/example-preconfigured-warehouse.png)

Some more advanced routes, such as pick-pack-ship, are also available. The
user can select the route that best fits their business needs. Once the
Incoming Shipments and Outgoing Shipments routes are set, head to Inventory ‣
Configuration ‣ Routes to see the specific routes that Odoo generated.

![View of all the preconfigured routes Odoo
offers.](../../../../../_images/preconfigured-routes.png)

On the Routes page, click on a route to open the route form. In the route
form, the user can view which places the route is Applicable On. The user can
also set the route to only apply on a specific Company. This is useful for
multi-company environments; for example, a user can have a company and
warehouse in Country A and a second company and warehouse in Country B.

![View of a route example applicable on product categories and
warehouses.](../../../../../_images/routes-example.png)

At the bottom of the route form, the user can view the specific Rules for the
route. Each Rule has an Action, a Source Location, and a Destination Location.

![An example of rules with push & pull actions in Odoo
Inventory.](../../../../../_images/rules-example.png)

### Custom Routes

To create a custom route, go to Inventory ‣ Configuration ‣ Routes, and click
on Create. Next, choose the places where this route can be selected. A route
can be applicable on a combination of places.

![View of a pick-pack-ship route.](../../../../../_images/advanced-custom-
route.png)

Each place has a different behavior, so it is important to tick only the
useful ones and adapt each route accordingly. Then, configure the Rules of the
route.

If the route is applicable on a product category, the route still needs to be
manually set on the product category form by going to Inventory ‣
Configuration ‣ Product Categories. Then, select the product category and open
the form. Next, click Edit and under the Logistics section, set the Routes.

When applying the route on a product category, all the rules configured in the
route are applied to **every** product in the category. This can be helpful if
the business uses the dropshipping process for all the products from the same
category.

![View of a route applied to the "all" product
category.](../../../../../_images/routes-logistic-section.png)

The same behavior applies to the warehouses. If the route can apply to
Warehouses, all the transfers occurring inside the chosen warehouse that meet
the conditions of the route’s rules will then follow that route.

![View of the warehouse drop-down menu when selecting applicable on
warehouse.](../../../../../_images/applicable-on-warehouse.png)

If the route is applicable on Sales Order Lines, it is more or less the
opposite. The route must be manually chosen when creating a quotation. This is
useful if some products go through different routes.

Remember to toggle the visibility of the Route column on the quotation/sales
order. Then, the route can be chosen on each line of the quotation/sales
order.

![View of the menu allowing to add new lines to sales
orders.](../../../../../_images/add-routes-to-sales-lines.png)

Finally, there are routes that can be applied to products. Those work more or
less like the product categories: once selected, the route must be manually
set on the product form.

To set a route on a product, go to Inventory ‣ Products ‣ Products and select
the desired product. Then, go to the Inventory tab and under the Operations
section, select the Routes.

![View of a product form, where the route must be
selected.](../../../../../_images/on-product-route.png)

Important

Rules must be set on the route in order for the route to work.

#### Rules

The rules are defined on the route form. First, go to Inventory ‣
Configuration ‣ Routes and open the desired route form. Next, click Edit and
in the Rules section, click on Add a line.

![View of the rules menu, where it is possible to add new
rules.](../../../../../_images/add-new-rules.png)

The available rules trigger various actions. If Odoo offers _Push_ and _Pull_
rules, others are also available. Each rule has an Action:

  * Pull From: this rule is triggered by a need for the product in a specific location. The need can come from a sales order being validated or from a manufacturing order requiring a specific component. When the need appears in the destination location, Odoo generates a picking to fulfill this need.

  * Push To: this rule is triggered by the arrival of some products in the defined source location. In the case of the user moving products to the source location, Odoo generates a picking to move those products to the destination location.

  * Pull & Push: this rule allows the generation of pickings in the two situations explained above. This means that when products are required at a specific location, a transfer is created from the previous location to fulfill that need. This creates a need in the previous location and a rule is triggered to fulfill it. Once the second need is fulfilled, the products are pushed to the destination location and all the needs are fulfilled.

  * Buy: when products are needed at the destination location, a request for quotation is created to fulfill the need.

  * Manufacture: when products are needed in the source location, a manufacturing order is created to fulfill the need.

![Overview of a "Pull From" rule that creates a transfer between the stock and
the packing zone.](../../../../../_images/pull-from-rule-stock-to-packing.png)

The Operation Type must also be defined on the rule. This defines which kind
of picking is created from the rule.

If the rule’s Action is set to Pull From or Pull & Push, a Supply Method must
be set. The Supply Method defines what happens at the source location:

  * Take From Stock: the products are taken from the available stock of the source location.

  * Trigger Another Rule: the system tries to find a stock rule to bring the products to the source location. The available stock is ignored.

  * Take From Stock, if Unavailable, Trigger Another Rule: the products are taken from the available stock of the source location. If there is no stock available, the system tries to find a rule to bring the products to the source location.

## Example flow

In this example, let’s use a custom _Pick - Pack - Ship_ route to try a full
flow with an advanced custom route.

First, a quick look at the route’s rules and their supply methods. There are
three rules, all Pull From rules. The Supply Methods for each rule are the
following:

  * Take From Stock: When products are needed in the WH/Packing Zone, _picks_ (internal transfers from WH/Stock to WH/Packing Zone) are created from WH/Stock to fulfill the need.

  * Trigger Another Rule: When products are needed in WH/Output, _packs_ (internal transfers from WH/Packing Zone to WH/Output) are created from WH/Packing Zone to fulfill the need.

  * Trigger Another Rule: When products are needed in Partner Locations/Customers, _delivery orders_ are created from WH/Output to fulfill the need.

![Overview of all the transfers created by the pick - pack - ship
route.](../../../../../_images/transfers-overview.png)

This means that, when a customer orders products that have a _pick - pack -
ship_ route set on it, a delivery order is created to fulfill the order.

![View of the operations created by a pull from
transfer.](../../../../../_images/operations-on-transfers.png)

Note

If the source document for multiple tranfers is the same sales order, the
status is not the same. The status will be Waiting Another Operation if the
previous transfer in the list is not done yet.

![View of the transfers' various statuses at the beginning of the
process.](../../../../../_images/waiting-status.png)

To prepare the delivery order, packed products are needed at the output area,
so an internal transfer is requested from the packing zone.

![View of the detailed operations for a transfer between the packing and
output zones.](../../../../../_images/detailed-operations-2.png)

Obviously, the packing zone needs products ready to be packed. So, an internal
transfer is requested to the stock and employees can gather the required
products from the warehouse.

![View of the detailed operations for a transfer between the stock and packing
zones.](../../../../../_images/detailed-operations-transfer.png)

As explained in the introduction of the documentation, the last step in the
process (for this route, the delivery order) is the first to be triggered,
which then triggers other rules until we reach the first step in the process
(here, the internal transfer from the stock to the packing area). Now,
everything is ready to be processed so the customer can get the ordered items.

In this example, the product is delivered to the customer when all the rules
have been triggered and the transfers are done.

![View of the transfers' statuses when the route is
completed.](../../../../../_images/transfers-status.png)

