# Configure ICE servers with Twilio

Odoo Discuss uses WebRTC API and peer-to-peer connections for voice and video
calls. If one of the call attendees is behind a symmetric NAT, you need to
configure an ICE server to establish a connection to the call attendee. To set
up an ICE server, first, create a Twilio account for video calls, and then,
connect that Twilio account to Odoo.

## Create a Twilio account

First, go to [Twilio](https://www.twilio.com) and click Sign up to create a
new Twilio account. Next, enter your name and email address, create a
password, and accept Twilio’s terms of service. Then, click Start your free
trial. Verify your email address with Twilio, as per their instructions.

Next, enter your phone number into Twilio. Then, Twilio will send you an SMS
text message containing a verification code. Enter the verification code into
Twilio to verify your phone number.

After that, Twilio redirects to a welcome page. Use the following list to
answer Twilio’s questions:

  * For Which Twilio product are you here to use?, select Video.

  * For What do you plan to build with Twilio?, select Other.

  * For How do you want to build with Twilio?, select With no code at all.

  * For What is your goal today?, select 3rd party integrations.

![The Twilio welcome page.](../../../_images/twilio-welcome.png)

If necessary, change the billing country. Finally, click Get Started with
Twilio.

## Locate the Twilio Account SID and Auth Token

To locate the Account SID and Auth Token, go to the Twilio account dashboard.
Then, click Develop on the sidebar. In the Account Info section, locate the
Account SID and the Auth Token. Both of these are needed to connect Twilio to
Odoo.

![The Twilio Account SID and Auth Token can be found uner the Account Info
section.](../../../_images/twilio-acct-info.png)

## Connect Twilio to Odoo

Open the Odoo database and go to Settings ‣ General Settings ‣ Discuss. Check
the box next to Use Twilio ICE servers and enter the Twilio account’s Account
SID and Auth Token. Finally, click Save to apply these changes.

![Enable the "Use Twilio ICE servers" option in Odoo General
Settings.](../../../_images/connect-twilio-to-odoo.png)

## Define a list of custom ICE servers

This step is not required for the Twilio configuration. However, if Twilio is
not configured or is not working at any given moment, Odoo will fall back on
the custom ICE servers list. The user must define the list of custom ICE
servers.

In Settings ‣ General Settings ‣ Discuss, click the ICE Servers button under
Custom ICE server list.

![The "ICE Servers" button in Odoo General Settings.](../../../_images/custom-
ice-servers-list.png)

Odoo will redirect to the ICE servers page. Here you can define your own list
of ICE servers.

![The "ICE servers" page in Odoo.](../../../_images/ice-servers-page.png)

Note

For on-premise instances of Odoo, the package `python3-gevent` is necessary
for the Discuss module to run calls/video calls on Ubuntu (Linux) servers.

