# Engineering change orders

Utilize _engineering change orders_ (_ECOs_) to track, implement, and revert
change versions made to products, and [bills of
materials](../../manufacturing/management/bill_configuration.html#manufacturing-
management-bill-configuration).

Engineering change orders can be created:

  1. directly in the ECO type.

  2. by an operator in the tablet view of an operation.

  3. automatically from feedback submitted to the [ECO type‚Äôs email alias](eco_type.html#plm-eco-eco-type).

## Create ECO

To create a new ECO, begin by navigating to the _PLM_ app. Then, select the
ECO type card that will be used to track the progress of the change. On the
Engineering Change Orders page, click the New button in the top-left corner.

Note

Learn how to create new [ECO types](eco_type.html#plm-eco-eco-type) to
categorize and organize change orders. Doing so ensures employees only view
the ECOs related to their responsibilities, whether it involves new product
introductions, targeted product line updates, or regulatory compliance
fulfillment.

On the ECO form, fill in the following fields accordingly:

  * Description is a brief summary of the improvement.

  * Type: specifies the ECO type project for organizing the ECOs.

  * Apply on determines if the ECO changes the Bill of Materials or the Product Only.

  * Product indicates the product being improved.

  * Bill of Materials specifies the changed BoM. It auto-populates if the product in Product field has an existing BoM. If multiple BoMs exist, select the intended radio options from the drop-down menu.

  * Company field is used in multi-company databases. Specify if the change applies to products in a specific company, or leave blank if the change applies to all companies.

  * Responsible represents the assignee in charge of this ECO. (Optional)

  * Effective specifies when the ECO becomes live. Choosing As soon as possible means the ECO applies to the production BoM as soon as an authorized user applies the changes.

On the other hand, choosing At Date, and setting a specific date, leaves a
date that makes it easier to track the version history of the BoM, and the
specific date BoMs, used for production.

  * Tags are assigned to ECOs for prioritization and organization. Create a new tag by typing the name in the field and selecting Create from the drop-down menu. (Optional)

After filling out the ECO form, click the Start Revision button to begin
implementing the changes.

By pressing Start Revision, three actions occur:

  1. The Documents smart button appears, storing relevant files of the BoM.

  2. A copy of the production BoM is stored in the newly-appeared Revision smart button of the ECO. The next available version number (e.g., `V2`, `V3`, ‚Ä¶) is also assigned to keep track of all BoM versions.

  3. The stages of the ECO Type are displayed in the top-right corner of the ECO.

Note

The Revision smart button is available **only** when the Bill of Materials
radio button is selected in the Apply on field, and the Start Revision button
has been pressed.

![ECO with overview of stages in the top-right corner, and *Revision* smart
button.](../../../../_images/eco-form.png)

## Change components

To modify the components in a BoM, click the Revision smart button on an ECO
to access the new version of the BoM. Odoo distinguishes the non-production
version of the BoM from the current version, by flagging the test BoM with a
large Archived tag.

Example

After clicking the Start Revision button for an ECO for the product, `[D_0045
Stool]`, make changes to the product‚Äôs BoM by clicking the Revision smart
button. Doing so opens the archived BoM, marked with a large red Archived
flag.

![Show the archived Bill of Materials.](../../../../_images/archived-bom.png)

On the new BoM, in the Components tab, proceed to modify the components list,
by changing the Quantity of existing components, adding new components using
the Add a line button, and removing components with the üóëÔ∏è (trash) icon.

Example

In version two of the BoM for a keyboard, the component quantities are
reduced, and an additional component, `Stabilizers`, is added.

![Make changes to components by going to the new BoM with the *Revision* smart
button.](../../../../_images/version-2-bom.png)

### Compare changes

Once the changes are complete, navigate back to the ECO, by clicking `ECO00X`
in the breadcrumbs located in the top-left corner. On the ECO form, a new BoM
Changes tab displays the differences between the current BoM and the new
version.

Blue text indicates new components added to the revised BoM that are not in
the production BoM. Black text represents updates shared by both BoMs, while
red text indicates components removed in the revised BoM.

Changes and tests are encapsulated in the revised BoM, and do **not** affect
the BoM currently used in production. That is, until the changes are applied.

Example

View the summary of the differences between the current and revised keyboard
BoMs in the BoM Changes tab of the ECO.

![View summary of component changes in the *BoM Changes*
tab.](../../../../_images/bom-changes.png)

## Change operations

To modify the operations in a BoM, click the Revision smart button on an ECO
to access the archived, new version of the BoM.

In the new BoM version, switch to the Operations tab to view and edit BoM
operations. To make changes, select each operation, which opens the
corresponding Open: Operations pop-up window.

Note

The Operations tab is _not_ available by default. To enable it, navigate to
Manufacturing app ‚Ä£ Configuration ‚Ä£ Settings, and check the Work Orders box.

Make changes to any of the fields in the Open: Operations pop-up window, then
click Save once completed.

Create new operations by clicking the Add a line button, and remove new
operations by clicking the Archive Operation button.

### Compare changes

Once the changes are complete, navigate back to the ECO, by clicking `ECO00X`
in the breadcrumbs located in the top-left corner.

On the ECO form, a new Operation Changes tab displays the differences between
the current production BoM and the new version.

Blue text indicates new operations added to the revised BoM that do not yet
exist in the production BoM. Black text represents updates shared by both
BoMs, while red text indicates operations removed in the revised BoM.

Modifications to the BoM in an ECO will **not** affect the BoM used in
production. That is, until the changes are applied.

In the Operation Changes tab, each row of details, beneath the columns in the
table, reflect the following information:

  * Operation: Name of the operation that was modified.

  * Step: specifies the quality control point, visible when the operation includes detailed instructions.

Note

To check for instructions, click the operation line item in the Operations tab
of a BoM. Then, in the Open: Operations pop-up window, look for the
Instructions smart button displayed at the top.

Example

The `Assembly` Operation includes `10` detailed Instructions to complete it.

![Show *Instructions* smart button to check whether an operation has
additional instructions.](../../../../_images/instructions-smart-button.png)

  * Step Type details the type of quality control for further instructions in the operation.

  * Type corresponds with the colored text to specify how the revised BoM differs from the production BoM. Operation change types can be Add, Remove, or Update.

  * Work Center specifies the work center at which the operation is performed.

  * Manual Duration Change refers to the change in the Default Duration field in the Open: Operations pop-up window, which specifies the expected time for completing the operation.

Example

The Operation Changes tab compares the production BoM with the revised BoM in
the ECO.

In the revised BoM, a new `Assembly` Operation at the Work Center `Assembly
Line 1` is added. In addition, the expected duration of the operation is
`20.00` minutes, as specified by the Manual Duration Change.

To supplement the `Assembly` operation, two quality control point instructions
are added:

  1. The first is the Step `QCP00039`, a Step Type to Register Production of components.

  2. The second Step is `QCP00034`, an `Instructions` Step Type that provides additional assembly details.

![Show *Operation Changes* tab in an |ECO|.](../../../../_images/operation-
changes.png)

## Apply changes

After verifying the changes, move the ECO to a [verification
stage](eco_type.html#plm-eco-stage-config), which are stages that require
approval before the revised changes can be applied to the production BoM.

Once the approvers accept the changes, the Apply Changes button becomes
available. Click this button, and the ECO is automatically moved to a closing
stage. The changes are applied, which archives the original production BoM,
and the revised BoM becomes the new production BoM.

### Verify changes

To ensure the changes are live, from the ECO where the Apply Changes button
was just pressed, return to the revised BoM by clicking the Revision smart
button.

On the revised BoM, the large red Archived flag is removed.

To further verify the changes, check the production BoM by going to
Manufacturing app ‚Ä£ Products ‚Ä£ Products and select the product.

Then, on the product form, click the Bill of Materials smart button, and
select the BoM from the list. In the Miscellaneous tab of the BoM, the Version
field is updated to match the version number shown on the Revision smart
button of the latest ECO.

Example

After applying the changes of the ECO for the keyboard, view the version of
the current keyboard BoM in the Miscellaneous tab. Here, the Version number
has been updated to `2`, matching the `V2` that appears in the Revision smart
button of the ECO.

![View current *BOM* version in the Miscellaneous
tab.](../../../../_images/bom-version.png)

## Create ECO from tablet view

Operators can directly suggest clearer operation instructions, while
performing manufacturing orders (MOs) in the _Manufacturing_ app.

To create ECOs in this manner, begin by navigating to Manufacturing app ‚Ä£
Operations ‚Ä£ Manufacturing Orders. Then, select the desired MO and switch to
the Work Orders tab. Then, click the üì± (mobile phone) icon for the desired
work order to open the _tablet view_ of the operation.

Important

The üì± (mobile phone) icon is **only** available for MOs with a Confirmed or In
Progress status.

![Find the tablet icon for each operation, second from the far
right.](../../../../_images/tablet-icon.png)

Next, add an instructional step, by clicking the ‚ò∞ (three horizontal lines)
icon in the tablet view of an operation. Doing so opens the Menu of action
items for a MO. Then, click the Add a step button.

![Open the *Add a Step* pop-up by clicking the three horizontal lines icon in
tablet view.](../../../../_images/additional-options-menu.png)

Clicking the button reveals an Add a step pop-up window, where the proposed
changes are submitted.

In the Title field, enter a short step description. Next, in the Instruction
text field, type the instructions of the step in greater detail. Optionally,
add an image to the Document field. Once completed, finish by clicking the
Propose Change button.

Example

To propose an additional check for broken components, enter the details in the
Add a Step pop-up window. Doing so creates an instructional quality control
point that will be reviewed in the following section.

![Fill out the *Add a Step* form to suggest an additional quality control
point.](../../../../_images/add-a-step.png)

Based on the inputs from the Add a Step pop-up window, an ECO is created with
the following information:

  1. Description is the name of the operation, followed by the MO number for reference.

  2. The ECO Type is automatically assigned to `BOM Changes`.

  3. Product and Bill of Materials fields are automatically populated, based on the BoM used in the MO.

  4. Responsible is the operator who submitted the feedback.

### View ECO

To review the proposed changes, navigate to the PLM app ‚Ä£ Overview. In the
`BOM Updates` ECO type card, the X Engineering Changes button represents the
amount of operational changes created from the tablet view.

Click on the X Engineering Changes button to open the kanban view of the ECO
type. To view the suggestion, select an ECO in the `New` stage.

On the ECO, view a summary of the proposed changes in the Operation Changes
tab. Click the Revision smart button to navigate to the revised BoM and look
into the proposed changes in greater detail.

Example

An operator suggested another check for broken components by adding a step
from the tablet view, while performing the `Assemble switches` operation for
the MO `WH/MO/00010` for the product, `Keyboard`.

Then, this created ECO can be viewed by navigating to the `BOM Changes` ECO
type found in PLM app ‚Ä£ Overview. By default, ECOs created from tablet view
are set to spawn in the `New` stage.

The Responsible field is assigned to the operator who made the suggestion,
allowing the employee revising the BoM to seek further clarification from the
person who proposed the changes.

![Find the new ECO in the "BOM Changes" ECO type, in the *New*
stage.](../../../../_images/view-bom-change.png)

On the revised BoM, switch to the Operations tab, and select the ‚ò∞ (three
horizontal lines) icon. Doing so opens a list of Steps to perform the
operation, with the newest instruction titled `New Step Suggestion:`, followed
by the user-entered title. Click the line item to view the suggested changes.

!["Show Instructions" icon in the *Operations* tab of a
BoM.](../../../../_images/show-instructions.png)

On the [quality control
point](../../quality/quality_management/quality_control_points.html#quality-
quality-management-quality-control-points) form, ensure the following form
fields are accurately filled out to give detailed instructions for operators:

  * Title: rename to give a concise description of the new instruction.

  * Control per: using the drop-down menu, determine whether this instruction applies broadly for the Product, specifically for this Operation _only_ , or a particular Quantity of the product.

  * Type: categorizes the control point type. From the drop-down menu, select Instructions to detail an instruction for the worker. To receive input from the workers, select the Take a Picture, Register Consumed Materials, Print Label, or other [quality check options](../../quality/quality_management/quality_control_points.html#quality-quality-management-quality-control-points).

See also

[Configure quality control
points](../../quality/quality_management/quality_control_points.html#quality-
quality-management-quality-control-points)

Once the quality control point is configured, return to the Steps list using
the breadcrumbs. Finally, drag the last quality control line item to its
intended order of instructions.

Example

Drag and reorder the `Check for broken switches` instruction, by clicking and
dragging its ‚Äú6 dots‚Äù icon to move it from the bottom to the second position.

![Drag and reorder instructions by selecting the "6 dots" icon on the far
left.](../../../../_images/reorder.png)

  *[ECO]: Engineering Change Order
  *[ECOs]: Engineering Change Orders
  *[BoM]: Bill of Materials
  *[BoMs]: Bills of Materials
  *[MO]: Manufacturing Order
  *[MOs]: Manufacturing Orders

