# Cookies bar

Cookies are small text files sent to your device when you visit a website.
They are processed and stored by your browser and contain information about
your visit, such as login data, location, language, etc. There are two main
types of cookies:

  * Essential cookies, which are necessary for the website to function properly;

  * Non-essential or optional cookies, which are used to analyze your behavior or display advertisements.

![Example of a cookies bar with the popup
layout.](../../../../_images/popup.png)

Notifying users about data collection, as well as its methods and purposes, is
required by data protection laws such as [GDPR](https://gdpr.eu). Cookies bars
are commonly used to fulfill this obligation in a user-friendly and
transparent manner. They are displayed immediately upon a user’s first visit
to inform them that the website uses cookies and let them decide whether they
want to store non-essential cookies on their device.

## Configuration

To enable the cookies bar on your Odoo website, go to Website ‣ Configuration
and enable Cookies Bar in the Privacy section.

You can customize the appearance of your cookies bar and edit the content of
the related Cookie Policy page.

## Customization

To adapt the display of the cookies bar, click Edit and select the Cookies Bar
building block in the Invisible Elements at the bottom of the panel. Customize
it using the options in the Customize tab in the edit panel. Three Layouts are
available:

  * Discrete: thin bar

  * Classic: banner

  * Popup: you can change the popup’s Position to the Top, Middle, or Bottom of the screen.

You can also:

  * modify the Size of the cookies bar;

  * enable Backdrop to gray out the page in the background when the cookies bar is displayed on the screen;

  * further customize the appearance of the cookies bar using Block and/or Column customization options, which are available after clicking anywhere in the building block.

To edit the contents of the cookies bar (i.e., the consent message), click
directly in the building block.

![Odoo Website's edit panel to customize the cookies
bar.](../../../../_images/customization.png)

## Cookie policy

When you enable the cookies bar for your website, Odoo creates the **Cookie
Policy** page (`/cookie-policy`) with the list of essential and optional
cookies. To access it, click the Cookie Policy hyperlink in the cookies bar or
open the page from Website ‣ Site ‣ Pages.

The contents of the page can be adapted based on your website’s features and
characteristics if needed.

Tip

You could add a link providing access to this page, in your website’s footer,
for example.

