# Product variants

Product variants are variations, such as different colors, materials, etc., of
the same product. These variations can differ in price and availability from
the product. Product variants can either be
[created](../../../sales/sales/products_prices/products/variants.html) or
[imported](../../../sales/sales/products_prices/products/import.html).

To use product variants, enable them under Website ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings,
in the Shop - Products section.

See also

  * [Product management](products.html)

  * [Product variants](../../../sales/sales/products_prices/products/variants.html)

  * [Import products](../../../sales/sales/products_prices/products/import.html)

## Product configurator

Adding attributes and values to a product template allows the enabling of the
**product configurator** on the product page. Customers use it to configure
and select the product variant of their choice; or in the case of multiple
attributes, combine those to create a specific variant.

![Variants configurator](../../../../_images/variants-configurator.png)

The **display type** of each attribute used in the product configurator can be
edited through the **website builder** by clicking Edit ‣ Customize on the
product page, and then clicking on one of the attributes. You can then select
between four options:

  * Radio

  * Pills

  * Select

  * Color

![Display type options for attributes](../../../../_images/variants-display-
type.png)

Alternatively, the **display type** can be edited through Website ‣ eCommerce
‣ Attributes, selecting an **attribute** , and then choosing a Display Type;
or through the **product template** by going to eCommerce ‣ Products,
selecting a product, and then clicking Attributes and Variants.

Tip

Specific combinations of values can be excluded from the product configurator.
This way, customers are unable to select the excluded combination of values.
To do so, go to Website ‣ eCommerce ‣ Products, select a product, and go to
Attributes and Variants. Then, click on an **attribute** , select a **value**
, and in the Exclude for section, select a Product Template and the Attribute
Values to exclude.

## Product specifications

Values used for each attribute are displayed as a **specification list** at
the bottom of the product page. To be visible, the **specification list** must
first be enabled on the product page by going to Edit ‣ Customize and
selecting a placement for the field Specification.

![Specifications list on the product page](../../../../_images/variants-
specifications.png)

Tip

The product **specification list** can also be used on products without
variants. For that, make sure to have no values combination. Products with
single values for their attributes do not generate variants.

## Filter catalog by attributes

Customers **can** filter the **catalog** based on product attributes and
values, allowing them to [filter](catalog.html#ecommerce-browsing) the catalog
based only on the attribute(s) of their choice.

To enable **attributes filtering** , go to Edit ‣ Customize from your **main
shop page** and click on one of the Categories in the left column. Here,
enable either Left, Top, or **both** , in the Attributes field.

![Categories buttons](../../../../_images/variants-categories.png)

