# Marketing automation campaigns

The Odoo _Marketing Automation_ app automates a variety of marketing tasks by
combining specific rules and filters to generate timed actions. Instead of
manually having to build each stage of a campaign (like a series of timed
massmails), the _Marketing Automation_ app allows marketers to build the
entire campaign, and all of its stages, in one place—on one dashboard.

## Campaign configuration

To create a new automated marketing campaign, navigate to Marketing Automation
app ‣ New to reveal a blank campaign form.

![A blank marketing automation campaign form in Odoo Marketing Automation
application.](../../../../_images/blank-marketing-campaign-form.png)

After entering a name for the marketing campaign, configure the target
audience in the remaining fields.

A target audience can be configured by entering specific criteria for Odoo to
use when determining to whom this marketing automation campaign should be
sent.

In the Target field, use the drop-down menu to choose which model the target
audience filters should be based on (e.g. Contact, Lead/Opportunity, Sales
Order, etc.).

Select Search More… from the drop-down menu to reveal a Search: Target pop-up
window containing all of the available targeting options.

Once a Target is selected, there’s a Unicity based on field. This field is
used to avoid duplicates based on the model chosen in the Target field.

Example

If Customers is chosen as the Target, select Email in the Unicity based on
field so Odoo only processes one record for each customer email address.

Select Search More… from the Unicity based on drop-down menu to reveal all
available options in a pop-up window.

Last on the campaign form is the Filter field. This is where more specific
targeting options can be layered into the campaign to further narrow the
number and type of recipients that receive the marketing automation material.

If left alone, the Filter field reads: Match all records. That means Odoo uses
the Target and Unicity based on fields to determine who the recipients will
be. The number of recipients is represented beneath as record(s).

### Campaign filter rules

To add a more specific filter to a marketing automation campaign, click the
Add condition button in the Filter field. Doing so reveals a series of other
configurable filter rule fields.

In the rule fields, customizable equations can be configured for Odoo to use
when filtering who to include or exclude in this specific marketing campaign.

![How the filter rule equation fields look in Odoo Marketing Automation
campaigns.](../../../../_images/filter-node-equation-fields.png)

Note

Records refer to contacts in the system that fit the specified criteria for a
campaign.

Also, once Add condition is clicked, the ability to Save as Favorite Filter
becomes available on the campaign form.

There is also the option to match records with all or any of the rules
configured in the Filter field.

To choose either of those options, click all from the middle of the sentence
“Match records with all of the following rules” to reveal a drop-down menu
with those options.

![Match records with all or any of the rules in Filter field for marketing
campaigns.](../../../../_images/match-all-any-rules-drop-down.png)

When the first field of the rule equation is clicked, a nested drop-down menu
of options appears on the screen where specific criteria is chosen based on
needs of the campaign.

The remaining fields on the rule equation further define the criteria, which
is used to determine which records in the database to include or exclude in
the execution of the campaign.

To add another rule, either click the ➕ (plus sign) icon to the right of the
filtering rule, or click New Rule beneath the rule equation fields. When
either are clicked, a new series of rule fields appears.

To add a branch of multiple rules at the same time, click the branch icon,
located to the right of the ➕ (plus sign) icon. When clicked, two additional
sub-rule equation fields appear beneath the initial rule.

![Sample of how the rule branches look in the filter section of a marketing
campaign.](../../../../_images/rule-branch-filter-sample.png)

There is also the option to have the filter apply to any or all of the
configured branch rules.

For further information on marketing automation campaign filter configuration,
refer to [this documentation page](target_audience.html).

See also

  * [Campaign workflow activities](workflow_activities.html)

  * [Testing/running campaigns](testing_running.html)

