# Transactions

Importing transactions from your bank statements allows keeping track of bank
account transactions and reconciling them with the ones recorded in your
accounting.

[Bank synchronization](bank_synchronization.html) automates the process.
However, if you do not want to use it or if your bank is not yet supported,
other options exist:

  * Import bank transactions delivered by your bank;

  * Register bank transactions manually.

Note

Grouping transactions by statement is optional.

## Import transactions

Odoo supports multiple file formats to import transactions:

  * SEPA recommended Cash Management format (CAMT.053);

  * Comma-separated values (.CSV);

  * Open Financial Exchange (.OFX);

  * Quicken Interchange Format (.QIF);

  * Belgium: Coded Statement of Account (.CODA).

To import a file, go to the Accounting Dashboard, and in the Bank journal,
click on Import Transactions.

![Import bank transactions from the bank journal](../../../../_images/import-
transactions.png)

Next, select the file and upload it.

After setting the necessary formatting options and mapping the file columns
with their related Odoo fields, you can run a Test and Import your bank
transactions.

See also

[Export and import data](../../../essentials/export_import_data.html)

## Register bank transactions manually

You can also record your bank transactions manually. To do so, go to
Accounting Dashboard, click on the Bank journal, and then on New. Make sure to
fill out the Partner and Label fields to ease the reconciliation process.

## Statements

A **bank statement** is a document provided by a bank or financial institution
that lists the transactions that have occurred in a particular bank account
over a specified period of time.

In Odoo Accounting, it is optional to group transactions by their related
statement, but depending on your business flow, you may want to record them
for control purposes.

Important

If you want to compare the ending balances of your bank statements with the
ending balances of your financial records, _don’t forget to create an opening
transaction_ to record the bank account balance as of the date you begin
synchronizing or importing transactions. This is necessary to ensure the
accuracy of your accounting.

To access a list of statements, go to your Accounting Dashboard, click on the
vertical ellipsis (⋮) button next to the bank or cash journal you want to
check, then on Statements

### Statement creation from the kanban view

Open the bank reconciliation view by clicking on the name of the bank journal,
and identify the transaction corresponding to the last transaction of your
bank statement. Click on the STATEMENT button when hovering on the upper
separator line.

![A "STATEMENT" button is visible when hovering on the line separating two
transactions.](../../../../_images/statements-kanban.png)

Fill out the statement’s details and save. The newly created statement
includes the previous transactions following the last statement.

### Statement creation from the list view

Open the list of transactions by clicking on the name of the bank journal and
switching to the list view. Select all the transactions corresponding to the
bank statement, and, in the Statement column, select an existing statement or
create a new one by typing its reference, clicking on Create and edit…,
filling out the statement’s details, and saving.

