# Track and manage talks

With Odoo Events, it’s possible to provide attendees with the power to propose
presenters to speak at events.

## Configuration

First, go to Events ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings and enable Schedule & Tracks.

When that feature is enabled, two more options become available: _Live
Broadcast_ and _Event Gamification_.

Live Broadcast allows for the airing of tracks online through a YouTube
integration.

Event Gamification allows for the sharing of a quiz with your attendees, once
a track (talk) is over.

Tip

Event Gamification isn’t necessary for tracks to appear on the event page on
the website, but it can enhance the engagement and overall enjoyablity of the
event for attendees.

## Talks, talk proposals, and agenda

Once those two features are enabled, the following links are automatically
added to the sub-header menu, located on the event page on the website: Talks,
Talk Proposals, and Agenda. Any attendee can freely access these menu items
and their corresponding content.

The Talks link takes the attendee to a page full of all the talks for that
event.

The Talks Proposals link takes the attendee to a form page, where they can
propose talks for the event.

The Agenda link takes the attendee to a page with all the talks for the event,
but in a calendar/time-slot format.

![View of the published website and the talks, talk proposals, and agenda in
Odoo Events](../../../_images/events-talk-proposal-header.png)

## Manage talk proposals

When attendees fill out and submit a talk proposal form on the website, a new
Proposal is instantly created in the back end for the event.

Note

All talks (Proposals, Confirmed, Announced, etc.) are accessible via the
Tracks smart button on the event form.

![View of the talks' proposals page emphasizing the column proposal in Odoo
Events.](../../../_images/events-tracks-kanban.png)

If a proposal is accepted, move the Event Track to the appropriate stage in
the Kanban view (e.g. `Confirmed`, etc.). Then, go to that particular event’s
template form, and click the Go to Website smart button to reach that specific
talk’s page on the website.

In the upper right corner, toggle the switch from Unpublished to Published,
and the talk is instantly accessible on the website.

Note

Without publishing a talk, attendees will never be able to access it.

![View of the website page to publish a proposed talk for Odoo
Events.](../../../_images/events-tracks-publish.png)

### Attendees list and attendance

Once attendees have registered for a specific event, they are added to the
Attendee List for that event, which is accessible via the Attendees smart
button on the event template form, or Reporting ‣ Attendees and sorted by
event.

Note

When an attendee arrives at the event, they will be marked as attending
(Confirmed Attendance), and the status of that attendee will change to
Attended.

![Overview of events with the kanban view in Odoo
Events.](../../../_images/events-attendees-smartbutton.png)

When analyzing an Attendees list, Odoo provides different ways to view the
information. Each view option presents the same information, but in a slightly
different layout. To change the view, click on the icons in the upper right
hand of the screen.

![Various view options on the attendees list page.](../../../_images/events-
attendees-view-options.png)

In the Kanban view, it can be confirmed whether the attendees have already
paid or remain unpaid.

The List view provides information in a more traditional list formation.

The Calendar view provides a clear schedule visualization of which attendees
are arriving on specific dates of the event.

The Graph view provides graphical representations of that event’s attendees,
along with numerous filters and customizable measures for deeper analysis.

The Cohort view lays out attendee data to better analyze the number of
registration dates.

Note

Tickets sold through sales orders validate attendees as soon as the quotation
is confirmed.

### Manage registrations

Upon selecting an attendee, Odoo reveals that specific attendee’s detail form.

From here, event badges can be sent manually, by selecting Send By Email. The
Attendee can also be marked as Attended, or the registration can be canceled
altogether via the Cancel Registration button.

![View of an attendee form emphasizing the send by email and cancel
registration in Odoo Events.](../../../_images/events-send-email-button.png)

### Lead Generation Rules

With Odoo, leads can be generated from events.

To create and configure a Lead Generation Rule related to events, navigate to
Events app ‣ Configuration ‣ Lead Generation.

On the Lead Generation Rule page, every configured Lead Generation Rule can be
found, along with pertinent data related to those rules.

![How the Lead Generation Rule page looks in Odoo
Events.](../../../_images/events-lead-generation-rule-page.png)

To create a new Lead Generation Rule, click Create, and fill out the Lead
Generation Rule form.

![How the Lead Generation Rule template looks in Odoo
Events.](../../../_images/events-lead-generation-rule-template.png)

After naming the rule, configure _how_ the lead should be created (either Per
Attendee or Per Order), and _when_ they should be created, (when Attendees are
created, when Attendees are confirmed, or when Attendees attended the event).

In the For any of these Events section, there are fields to attach this rule
to any specific event categories, company, and/or event. To add even more
specificity to the rule, a domain filter rule can be configured to ensure the
rule only applies to a specific target audience of attendees (found in the If
the Attendees meet these Conditions section).

Lastly, in the Lead Default Values section, designate a Lead Type, then assign
it to a specific Sales Team (and/or Salesperson), and attach tags to the rule,
if necessary.

