# Customer interaction

Odoo offers many ways to interact with customers and for customers to interact
with your website.

## Product reviews

Customers can give a rating to your products. This is a great way to promote
your products or services since reviews can influence purchase processes. To
activate the **rating** feature, from your **shop page** , select a product,
go to Edit ‣ Customize and enable Rating.

![Rating of a product on the product page](../../../../_images/interaction-
rating.png)

Note

Only portal users which purchased the product or service can leave ratings.

Tip

Customer reviews can be hidden by clicking the Visible button next to a
published review.

## Live chat

A chatbot is available and can simulate a human-like conversation with website
visitors via text messages in a chat box.

See also

  * [Live Chat](../../livechat.html)

  * [Ratings](../../livechat/ratings.html)

  * [Commands and canned responses](../../livechat/responses.html)

## Contact forms

### Helpdesk

Customers may need support after purchasing a product or subscribing to a
service. It is possible to create a **contact form** , which, when fulfilled,
automatically creates a new ticket for your **support team**.

![Contact form to submit a ticket to the support
team](../../../../_images/interaction-form.png)

To add a contact form, **create** a new page (\+ New ‣ Page) if necessary, and
drag and drop a Form block from the Dynamic Content section onto the page.
Once placed, click on the form (while in Edit mode), and in the Action field,
select Create a Ticket. You can then select to which Helpdesk team the ticket
should be assigned.

![Action field to create a task upon submitting a
form](../../../../_images/interaction-ticket.png)

### Contact us

A ‘Contact Us’ page makes it easier for customers and prospects to contact
your company and get in touch.

To have a ‘Contact Us’ page, create a new page (\+ New ‣ Page) if necessary,
and click on Edit ‣ Customize. Then, drag and drop a Form block onto the page.
Select the form and define the action to be performed when submitted in the
Action field.

When clicking on a field, or when adding a new field (\+ Field), you can
select its Type. This enables different options, such as Multiple Checkboxes,
which customers can use to indicate the services they are interested in, for
example.

![Tags to be selected on the 'Contact Us'
form](../../../../_images/interaction-tags.png) !['Checkboxes' configuration
settings](../../../../_images/interaction-checkboxes.png)

## Newsletter

Customers can get updates on your eCommerce activities by subscribing to a
newsletter. Visitors subscribing to the newsletter are automatically added to
the mailing list of the **Email Marketing** application. You can either choose
a newsletter **block** , a newsletter **popup** , or both.

  * **Popup** : prompts up a newsletter box when visitors scroll down the page;

  * **Block** : displays a field on the page where customers can sign up by entering their email.

The newsletter **block** can be configured according to different Templates.
To do so, click the **block** while in Edit ‣ Customize, and select a Template
in the Newsletter Block section. There are **three** templates available:

  * Email Subscription: visitors can sign up by email to the newsletter, without any choice to the content. The content is defined in Edit ‣ Customize in the Newsletter field;

  * SMS Subscription: is the same as Email Subscription, but by SMS;

  * Form Subscription: allows adding several fields, as well as a checkbox for the visitor to agree to the **GDPR policy** of your website.

![Form subscription configuration and
settings](../../../../_images/interaction-news.png)

Tip

Alternatively, you can select Subscribe to Newsletter as Action when creating
a contact form, allowing for the same level of customization. Make sure to add
a checkbox stating visitors agree to be added to the mailing list.

