# Three-step manufacturing

Odoo _Manufacturing_ allows users to manufacture products using one, two, or
three steps. When using three-step manufacturing, Odoo creates a pick
components transfer, a manufacturing order (MO), and a store finished products
transfer, and updates inventory counts based on the number of components
removed, and finished products created.

Astuce

The number of steps used in manufacturing is set at the warehouse level,
allowing for each warehouse to use a different number of steps. To change the
number of steps used for a specific warehouse, begin by navigating to
Inventory â€£ Configuration â€£ Warehouses, and then select a warehouse from the
Warehouses screen.

On the Warehouse Configuration tab, find the Manufacture radio input field,
and select one of the three options: Manufacture (1 step), Pick components and
then manufacture (2 steps), or Pick components, manufacture and then store
products (3 steps).

![The Manufacture radio input field on a warehouse configuration
page.](../../../../_images/manufacturing-type1.png)

Important

Products must be properly configured before they can be manufactured in Odoo.
For details on how to do so, see the documentation on how to [configure a
product for manufacturing](configure_manufacturing_product.html#manufacturing-
management-configure-manufacturing-product).

## Create manufacturing order

To manufacture a product in Odoo _Manufacturing_ , begin by navigating to
Manufacturing â€£ Operations â€£ Manufacturing Orders, and then click New to
create a new MO.

On the new MO, select the product to be produced from the Product drop-down
menu. The Bill of Material field auto-populates with the associated Bill of
Materials (BoM).

If a product has more than one BoM configured for it, the specific BoM can be
selected in the Bill of Material field, and the Product field auto-populates
with the associated product.

After a BoM has been selected, the Components and Work Orders tabs auto-
populate with the components and operations specified on the BoM. If
additional components or operations are required for the MO being configured,
add them to the Components and Work Orders tabs by clicking Add a line.

Finally, click Confirm to confirm the MO.

## Process pick components transfer

After confirming a three-step MO, a Transfers smart button appears at the top
of the page. Click it to be taken to the Transfers page for the MO. The page
lists two transfers: _WH/PC/XXXXX_ (the pick components transfer), and
_WH/SFP/XXXXX_ (the store finished products transfer).

Select WH/PC/XXXXX to open the pick components transfer for the MO. This
transfer is used to track the movement of components from the locations where
they are stored to the location where they are used to manufacture the
product.

After transferring the components out of their storage location, click
Validate at the top of the transfer, followed by Apply on the Immediate
Transfer? pop-up window that appears. Doing so marks the transfer as Done, and
updates inventory counts to reflect the quantity of components transferred.

Finally, return to the MO by clicking the WH/MO/XXXXX breadcrumb at the top of
the page.

![The manufacturing order bread crumb on a pick components
transfer.](../../../../_images/mo-bread-crumb.png)

## Process manufacturing order

An MO is processed by completing all of the work orders listed under its Work
Orders tab. This can be done on the MO itself, or from the work order tablet
view.

### Basic workflow

To complete work orders from the MO itself, begin by navigating to
Manufacturing â€£ Operations â€£ Manufacturing Orders, and then select a
manufacturing order.

On the MO page, select the Work Orders tab. Once work begins on the first work
order that needs to be completed, click the Start button for that work order.
Odoo _Manufacturing_ then starts a timer that keeps track of how long the work
order takes to complete.

![The Start button for a work order on a manufacturing
order.](../../../../_images/start-button-2.png)

When the work order is completed, click the Done button for that work order.
Repeat the same process for each work order listed on the Work Orders tab.

![The Done button for an work order on a manufacturing
order.](../../../../_images/done-button1.png)

After completing all of the work orders, click Produce All at the top of the
screen to mark the MO as Done, and register the manufactured product(s) into
inventory.

### Tablet view workflow

To complete the work orders for an MO using the tablet view, begin by
navigating to Manufacturing â€£ Operations â€£ Manufacturing Orders, and then
select a manufacturing order.

Next, click on the Work Orders tab, and then select the ðŸ“± (tablet) button on
the line of the first work order to be processed. This opens the tablet view.

![Le bouton de la vue de tablette pour un ordre de travail sur un ordre de
fabrication.](../../../../_images/tablet-view-button2.png)

After opening the tablet view, Odoo _Manufacturing_ automatically starts a
timer that keeps track of how long the work order takes to complete. After
completing the work order, click the Mark as Done button in the top-right
corner of the tablet view.

Clicking Mark as Done while there is at least one more work order left to
complete opens a page that lists the next work order. Click on that work order
to open it in the tablet view.

Once the final work order for the MO has been reached, a Mark as Done and
Close MO button appears on the tablet view in addition to the Mark as Done
button. Click Mark as Done and Close MO to mark the MO as Done, and register
the manufactured product(s) into inventory.

It is also possible to complete the final work order while keeping the MO
open, by clicking Mark as Done. In this case, the MO can be closed at a later
time by clicking the Produce All button on the MO.

## Process finished product transfer

After completing the MO, return to the orderâ€™s Transfers page by clicking the
Transfers button at the top of the order. This time, select WH/SFP/XXXXX to
open the store finished products transfer. This transfer is used to track the
movement of finished products from the location where they were manufactured
to the location where they are stored.

After transferring the finished products to their storage location, click
Validate at the top of the transfer, followed by Apply on the Immediate
Transfer? pop-up window that appears. Doing so marks the transfer as Done, and
updates inventory counts to reflect the quantity of finished products
transferred.

  *[MO]: Manufacturing Order
  *[BoM]: Bill of Materials

