# AI-powered document digitization

**Invoice digitization** is the process of converting paper documents into
vendor bill and customer invoice forms in your accounting.

Odoo uses OCR and artificial intelligence technologies to recognize the
content of the documents. Vendor bill and customer invoice forms are
automatically created and populated based on the scanned invoices.

See also

  * [Test Odoo’s invoice digitization](https://www.odoo.com/app/invoice-automation)

  * [Odoo Tutorials: Invoice Digitization with OCR](https://www.odoo.com/slides/slide/digitize-bills-with-ocr-1712)

## Configuration

In Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings ‣ Digitization, check the box
Document Digitization and choose whether Vendor Bills and Customer Invoices
(this includes customer credit notes) should be processed automatically or on
demand.

If you enable the Single Invoice Line Per Tax option, only one line is created
per tax in the new bill, regardless of the number of lines on the invoice.

## Invoice upload

### Upload invoices manually

From the Accounting Dashboard, click on the Upload button of your vendor bills
journal. Alternatively, go to Accounting ‣ Customers ‣ Invoices or Accounting
‣ Vendors ‣ Bills and select Upload.

### Upload invoices using an email alias

You can configure your connected scanner to send scanned documents to an email
alias. Emails sent to these aliases are converted into new draft customer
invoices or vendor bills.

You can modify the email alias of a journal. To do so, go to the Settings app.
Under General Settings: Discuss, enable Custom Email Servers, add an Alias
Domain, and Save.

The email alias is now available in the Advanced Settings tab of the journal.
Emails sent to this address will be converted automatically into new invoices
or bills.

Note

If you use the [Documents](../../../productivity/documents.html) app, you can
automatically send your scanned invoices to the Finance workspace (e.g.,
`inbox-financial@example.odoo.com`).

The default email aliases `vendor-bills@` and `customer-invoices@` followed by
the Alias Domain you set are automatically created for the Vendor Bills and
Customer Invoices journals, respectively. Emails sent to these addresses are
converted automatically into new invoices or bills.

To change a default email alias, go to Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣
Accounting: Journals. Select the journal you want to edit, click on the
Advanced Settings tab, and edit the `Email Alias`.

## Invoice digitization

According to your settings, the document is either processed automatically, or
you need to click on Send for digitization to do it manually.

Once the data is extracted from the PDF, you can correct it if necessary by
clicking on the respective tags (available in Edit mode) and selecting the
proper information instead.

## Data recognition with AI

It is essential to review and correct (if needed) the information uploaded
during digitization. Then, you have to post the document by clicking on
Confirm. In this manner, the AI learns, and the system identifies the correct
data for future digitizations.

## Pricing

The **invoice digitization** is an In-App Purchase (IAP) service that requires
prepaid credits to work. Digitizing one document consumes one credit.

To buy credits, go to Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings ‣ Digitization and
click on Buy credits, or go to Settings ‣ Odoo IAP and click on View My
Services.

Important

If you are on Odoo Online and have the Enterprise version, you benefit from
free trial credits to test the feature.

See also

  * [Our Privacy Policy](https://iap.odoo.com/privacy#header_6)

  * [In-app purchases (IAP)](../../../essentials/in_app_purchase.html)

  *[OCR]: optical character recognition

