# VoIP widget

The _VoIP_ widget is an add-on made available to Odoo users through the _VoIP_
module. It is used to incorporate virtual telephony into the database. The
widget is the control center for making and managing calls in Odoo.

## Phone calls

To make phone calls while in the Odoo database, click the ‚òéÔ∏è (phone) icon,
located in the top navigation bar.

When clicked, a VOIP pop-up widget appears in the lower-left corner of the
Odoo database. The widget allows users to freely navigate throughout the
database, while making and receiving calls.

When receiving calls in Odoo, the VOIP widget rings,and displays a
notification. To close the widget, click the X (close) icon in the upper-right
of the widget‚Äôs screen.

Note

The VoIP number is the one provided by Axivox. It can be accessed by
navigating to <https://manage.axivox.com/>. After logging into the portal, go
to Users ‚Ä£ Outgoing number (column).

![VoIP call in Odoo.](../../../_images/call.png)

## Troubleshooting

Tip

If a _Missing Parameter_ error message appears in the Odoo _VoIP_ widget,
refresh the Odoo window, and try again.

!["Missing Parameter" error message in the Odoo
softphone.](../../../_images/missing-parameter.png)

Tip

If an _Incorrect Number_ error message appears in the Odoo _VoIP_ widget, make
sure to use the international format, leading with the \+ (plus) sign,
followed by the international country code.

(E.g., +16506913277, where `+1` is the international prefix for the United
States.)

!["Incorrect Number" error message in the Odoo
softphone.](../../../_images/incorrect-number.png)

## Tabs

In all, there are three tabs (Recent, Next Activities, and Contacts) present
in the _VoIP_ widget, which are used for managing calls and day-to-day
activities in Odoo.

### Recent

Under the Recent tab of the _VoIP_ widget, the call history for the user is
available. This includes incoming and outgoing calls. Any number can be
clicked to begin a call.

### Next activities

Under the Next Activities tab of the _VoIP_ widget, a user can see any
activities assigned to them, and which ones are due to be completed for the
day.

Click an activity from this tab to perform any actions including: Sending an
email, accessing their contact, scheduling another activity, or accessing a
linked record (such as a Sales Order, Lead/Opportunity, or Project Task).

The user can also mark the activity as complete, edit the details of the
activity, or cancel it.

To call the customer related to a scheduled activity, click the üìû (phone)
icon, or click the ‚å®Ô∏è (keyboard) icon to dial another number for the customer.

![Activity control center on the VoIP widget.](../../../_images/activity-
widget.png)

Some other icons appear in the _VoIP_ widget, categorized by two sections:
Document and Activity.

Under the Document section, from right to left:

  * ‚úâÔ∏è (envelope) icon: sends an email

  * üë§ (person icon) icon: redirects to the contact card

  * üìÑ (document) icon: redirects to the attached record in Odoo

  * üïì (clock) icon: schedule an activity

Under the Activity section, from left to right:

  * ‚úîÔ∏è (checkmark) icon: mark activity as done

  * ‚úèÔ∏è (pencil) icon: edit the activity

  * ‚úñÔ∏è (cancel) icon: cancel the activity

### Contacts

Under the Contacts tab of the _VoIP_ widget, a user can access a contact in
the _Contacts_ app.

Any contact can easily be called by clicking into the contact from the _VoIP_
widget‚Äôs Contacts tab.

A search feature is also available in the upper-right side of the widget,
represented by a üîç (magnifying glass) icon.

  *[VoIP]: Voice over Internet Protocol

