# Droits d‚Äôacc√®s

_Access rights_ are permissions that determine the content and applications
users can access and edit. In Odoo, these permissions can be set for
individual users or for groups of users. Limiting permissions to only those
who need them ensures that users do not modify or delete anything they should
not have access to.

**Only** an _administrator_ can change access rights.

Danger

Making changes to access rights can have a detrimental impact on the database.
This includes _impotent admin_ , which means that no user in the database can
make changes to the access rights. For this reason, Odoo recommends contacting
an Odoo Business Analyst, or our Support Team, before making changes.

Astuce

A user **must** have the specific _Administration_ access rights set on their
user profile, in order to make changes on another user‚Äôs settings for access
rights.

To access this setting, navigate to Settings app ‚Ä£ Manage users ‚Ä£ select a
user ‚Ä£ Access Rights tab ‚Ä£ Administration section ‚Ä£ Administration field.

Once at the setting, an already existing administrator **must** change the
setting in the Administration field to Access Rights.

Once complete, click Save to save the changes, and implement the user as an
administrator.

## Utilisateurs

The access rights for [individual users](../users.html#users-add-individual)
are set when the user is added to the database, but they can be adjusted at
any point in the user‚Äôs profile.

To make changes to a user‚Äôs rights, click on the desired user to edit their
profile.

![Users menu in the Users & Companies section of the Settings app of
Odoo.](../../../_images/navigate-to-users-menu.png)

On the user‚Äôs profile page, in the Access Rights tab, scroll down to view the
current permissions.

For each app, use the drop-down menu to select what level of permission this
user should have. The options vary for each section, yet the most common are:
Blank/None, User: Own Documents, User: All Documents, or Administrator.

The Administration field in the Access Rights tab has the following options:
Settings or Access Rights.

![The Sales apps drop-down menu to set the user's level of
permissions.](../../../_images/user-permissions-dropdown-menu.png)

## Create and modify groups

_Groups_ are app-specific sets of permissions that are used to manage common
access rights for a large amount of users. Administrators can modify the
existing groups in Odoo, or create new ones to define rules for models within
an application.

To access groups, first activate Odoo‚Äôs [developer
mode](../developer_mode.html#developer-mode), then go to Settings app ‚Ä£ Users
& Companies ‚Ä£ Groups.

![Groups menu in the Users & Companies section of the Settings app of
Odoo.](../../../_images/click-users-and-companies.png)

To create a new group from the Groups page, click Create. Then, from the blank
group form, select an Application, and complete the group form (detailed
below).

To modify existing groups, click on an existing group from the list displayed
on the Groups page, and edit the contents of the form.

Enter a Name for the group and tick the checkbox next to Share Group, if this
group was created to set access rights for sharing data with some users.

Important

Always test the settings being changed to ensure they are being applied to the
correct users.

The group form contains multiple tabs for managing all elements of the group.
In each tab, click Add a line to add a new row for users or rules, and click
the ‚ùå (remove) icon to remove a row.

![Tabs in the Groups form to modify the settings of the
group.](../../../_images/groups-form.png)

  * Users tab: lists the current users in the group. Users listed in black have administrative rights. Users without administrative access appear in blue. Click Add a line to add users to this group.

  * Inherited tab: inherited means that users added to this group are automatically added to the groups listed on this tab. Click Add a line to add inherited groups.

Example

For example, if the group _Sales/Administrator_ lists the group
_Website/Restricted Editor_ in its Inherited tab, then any users added to the
_Sales/Administrator_ group automatically receive access to the
_Website/Restricted Editor_ group, as well.

  * Menus tab: defines which menus/models the group can have access to. Click Add a line to add a specific menu.

  * Views tab: lists which views in Odoo the group has access to. Click Add a line to add a view to the group.

  * Access Rights tab: lists the first level of rights (models) that this group has access rights to. Click Add a line to link access rights to this group. In this tab, the Model column represents the common name of the menu/model, and the Name column represents the technical name given to the model. For each model, enable the following options as appropriate:

    * Read: users can see the object‚Äôs existing values.

    * Write: users can edit the object‚Äôs existing values.

    * Create: users can create new values for the object.

    * Delete: users can delete values for the object.

Astuce

First try searching for the common name of the model in the drop-down menu of
the Model column. The Model technical name can be found by expanding the model
common name, which can be done by clicking the (external link) icon.

The model technical name can also be accessed in [developer
mode](../developer_mode.html#developer-mode).

On a form, navigate to any field, and hover over the field name. A box of
backend information reveals itself with the specific Odoo Object name in the
backend. This is the technical name of the model that should be added.

![Technical information shown on a field of a model, with object
highlighted.](../../../_images/technical-info.png)

  * Record Rules: lists the second layer of editing and visibility rights. Record Rules overwrite, or refine, the group‚Äôs access rights. Click Add a line to add a record rule to this group. For each rule, choose values for the following options:

    * Apply for Read.

    * Apply for Write.

    * Apply for Create.

    * Apply for Delete.

Important

Record rules are written using a _domain_ , or conditions that filter data. A
domain expression is a list of such conditions. For example:

`[('mrp_production_ids', 'in',
user.partner_id.commercial_partner_id.production_ids.ids)]`

This record rule is to enable MRP consumption warnings for subcontractors.

Odoo has a library of preconfigured record rules for ease of use. Users
without knowledge of domains (and domain expressions) should consult an Odoo
Business Analyst, or the Odoo Support Team, before making changes.

## Superuser mode

_Superuser mode_ allows the user to bypass record rules and access rights. To
activate _Superuser mode_ , first, activate [developer
mode](../developer_mode.html#developer-mode). Then, navigate to the _debug_
menu, represented by a ü™≤ (bug) icon, located in the top banner.

Finally, towards the bottom of the menu, click Become Superuser.

Important

Only users with _Settings_ access for the _Administration_ section of the
_Access Rights_ (in their user profile) are allowed to log in to _Superuser
mode_.

Danger

 _Superuser mode_ allows for circumvention of record rules and access rights,
and therefore, should be exercised with extreme caution.

Upon exiting _Superuser mode_ , users may be locked out of the database, due
to changes that were made. This can cause _impotent admin_ , or an
administrator without the ability to change access rights/settings.

In this case contact Odoo Support here: [new help
ticket](https://www.odoo.com/help). The support team is able to restore access
using a support login.

To leave _Superuser mode_ , log out of the account, by navigating to the
upper-right corner, and clicking on the OdooBot username. Then, select the Log
out option.

Astuce

An alternative way to activate _Superuser mode_ is to login as a superuser. To
do that, navigate to the login screen, and enter the appropriate Email and
Password.

Instead of clicking Login, click Log in as superuser.

