# Philippines

## Configuration

[Install](../../general/apps_modules.html#general-install) the ðŸ‡µðŸ‡­ Philippines
[fiscal localization package](../fiscal_localizations.html#fiscal-
localizations-packages) to get all the default accounting features of the
Philippine localization, such as a chart of accounts, taxes, and the BIR 2307
report. These provide a base template to get started with using Philippine
accounting.

Note

  * When creating a new database and selecting the `Philippines` as a country, the fiscal localization module **Philippines - Accounting** is automatically installed.

  * If the module is installed in an existing company, the **chart of accounts** and **taxes** will _not_ be replaced if there are already posted journal entries.

  * The BIR 2307 report is installed, but the withholding taxes may need to be manually created.

### Chart of accounts and taxes

A minimum configuration default chart of accounts is installed, and the
following types of taxes are installed and linked to the relevant account:

  * VAT 12%

  * VAT Exempt

  * Withholding taxes

For the withholding taxes (Configuration â€£ Taxes), there is an additional
Philippines ATC field under the Philippines tab.

![Philippines ATC code field set on taxes.](../../../_images/philippines-atc-
code.png)

Note

Taxesâ€™ ATC codes are used for the BIR 2307 report. If a tax is created
manually, its ATC code must be added.

### Contacts

When a company or an individual (not belonging to a company) contact is
located in the Philippines, fill in the Tax ID field with their `Taxpayer
Identification Number (TIN)`.

For individuals not belonging to a company, identify them by using the
following additional fields:

  * First Name

  * Middle Name

  * Last Name

![Individual type contact with First, Middle, and Last Name
fields.](../../../_images/philippines-contact-individual.png)

Note

For both Company and Individual, the TIN should follow the `NNN-NNN-NNN-NNNNN`
format. The branch code should follow the last digits of the TIN, or else it
can be left as `00000`.

## BIR 2307 report

**BIR 2307** report data, also known as [Certificate of Creditable Tax
Withheld at Source](https://www.bir.gov.ph/index.php/bir-
forms/certificates.html), can be generated for purchase orders and vendor
payments with the applicable withholding taxes.

To generate a BIR 2307 report, select one or multiple vendor bills from the
list view, and click Action â€£ Download BIR 2307 XLS.

![Multiple vendor bills selected with action to "Download BIR 2307
XLS".](../../../_images/philippines-multi-bill.png)

Tip

The same action can be performed on a vendor bill from the form view.

A pop-up appears to review the selection, then click on Generate.

![Pop up menu to generate BIR 2307 XLS file.](../../../_images/philippines-
generate.png)

This generates the `Form_2307.xls` file that lists all the vendor bill lines
with the applicable withholding tax.

The process above can also be used for a _single_ vendor
[payment](../accounting/payments.html) if it is linked to one or more [vendor
bills](../accounting/payments.html) with applied withholding taxes.

Note

  * If no withholding tax is applied, then the XLS file will not generate records for those vendor bill lines.

  * When grouping payments for multiple bills, Odoo splits the payments based on the contact. From a payment, clicking Action â€£ Download BIR 2307 XLS generates a report that only includes vendor bills related to that contact.

Important

Odoo cannot generate the BIR 2307 PDF report or DAT files directly. The
generated `Form_2307.xls` file can be exported to an _external_ tool to
convert it to BIR DAT or PDF format.

