# Romania

## Configuration

[Install](../../general/apps_modules.html#general-install) the following
modules to get all the features of the Romanian localization.

Name | Technical name | Description  
---|---|---  
Romania - Accounting | `l10n_ro` | Default [fiscal localization package](../fiscal_localizations.html#fiscal-localizations-packages).  
Romanian SAF-T Export | `l10n_ro_saft` | Module to generate the **D.406 declaration** in the SAF-T format.  
![Modules for the Romanian localization](../../../_images/romania-modules.png)

## D.406 declaration

Starting January 1, 2023, companies registered for tax purposes in Romania
must report their accounting data to the Romanian Tax Agency monthly or
quarterly in the D.406 declaration.

Odoo provides all you need to export the data of this declaration in the SAF-T
XML format, which you can validate and sign using the software provided by the
Romanian Tax Agency.

Note

Currently, Odoo only supports the generation of the monthly/quarterly D.406
declaration (containing journal entries, invoices, vendor bills, and
payments). The yearly declaration (including assets) and the on-demand
declaration (including inventory) are not yet supported.

### Configuration

#### Company

  * Under Settings –> General Settings, in the **Companies** section, click Update Info and fill in the company’s Country, City, and Telephone Number.

  * Provide your company’s CUI number or CIF number (for foreign companies) in the Company ID field, without the `RO` prefix (e.g., `18547290`).

  * If your company is **registered** for VAT in Romania, fill in the Tax ID field number, including the `RO` prefix (e.g., `RO18547290`). If the company is **not** registered for VAT in Romania, you **must not** fill in the Tax ID field.

  * Open the **Contacts** app and search for your company. Open your company’s profile, and in the Accounting tab, click Add a line and add your **bank account number** if not informed already. Make sure the profile is set as Company above the **name**.

    * You must have at least one **contact person** linked to your company in the **Contacts** app. If no **contact person** is linked, create a new one by clicking New, set it as Individual, and select your company in the Company name field.

#### Chart of accounts

To generate a file receivable by the Romanian Tax Agency, the chart of
accounts must not deviate from an official chart of accounts, such as:

  * the chart of accounts for commercial companies (_PlanConturiBalSocCom_), which is installed by default when creating a company with the Romanian localization or;

  * the chart of accounts for companies following [IFRS](https://www.ifrs.org/) (_PlanConturiIFRS_).

Under Settings –> Accounting, in the **Romanian localization** section, set
the Tax Accounting Basis to reflect the accounting regulations and Chart of
Accounts used by the company.

See also

[Chart of accounts](../accounting/get_started/chart_of_accounts.html)

#### Customer and supplier

Fill in the Country, City, and Zip Code of each partner that appears in your
invoices, vendor bills, or payments through the **Contacts** app.

For partners that are companies, you must fill in the VAT number (including
the country prefix) in the Tax ID field. If the partner is a company based in
Romania, you may instead fill in the CUI number (without the ‘RO’ prefix) in
the Company ID field.

#### Tax

You must indicate the Romanian SAF-T Tax Type (3-digit number) and Romanian
SAF-T Tax Code (6-digit number) on each of the taxes you use. This is already
done for the taxes that exist by default in Odoo. To do so, go to Accounting ‣
Configuration ‣ Taxes, select the tax you wish to modify, click the Advanced
Options tab, and fill in the **tax type** and **tax code** fields.

Note

The **tax type** and **tax code** are codes defined by the Romanian Tax Agency
for the **D.406 declaration**. These can be found in the Excel spreadsheet
published as guidance for completing the declaration, which you can find on
the [website of the Romanian Tax
Agency](https://www.anaf.ro/anaf/internet/ANAF/despre_anaf/strategii_anaf/proiecte_digitalizare/saf_t/).

See also

[Taxes](../accounting/taxes.html)

#### Product

For some types of goods transactions, the Intrastat Code (Cod NC) must be
configured on the product, as it is required by Romanian law:

  * import / export transactions;

  * acquisitions / supplies of food products subjected to reduced VAT rate;

  * intra-community movements subjected to intrastat reporting;

  * acquisitions / supplies subjected to local reversed VAT charge (depending on Cod NC); and

  * transactions with excisable products for which excise duties are determined based on the Cod NC.

If the Intrastat Code is not specified on a non-service product, the default
code ‘0’ will be used.

To configure the Intrastat Codes, go to Accounting ‣ Customers ‣ Products,
select a product, and in the Accounting tab, set a Commodity Code.

See also

[Intrastat](../accounting/reporting/intrastat.html)

#### Vendor bill

You must check the Is self-invoice (RO)? checkbox in the Other Info tab for
any vendor bill that is a self-invoice (i.e. a vendor bill that you issued
yourself in the absence of an invoice document received from a supplier).

### Generating the declaration

#### Exporting your data

To export the XML for the D.406 declaration, go to Accounting ‣ Reports ‣
General Ledger and click on SAF-T.

![Click on the 'SAF-T' button to export the D.406 XML
declaration.](../../../_images/romania-saft-button.png)

You can then validate and sign the XML file using the Romanian Tax Agency’s
validation software, _DUKIntegrator_.

#### Signing the report

Download and install the _DUKIntegrator_ validation software found on the
[website of the Romanian Tax
Agency](https://www.anaf.ro/anaf/internet/ANAF/despre_anaf/strategii_anaf/proiecte_digitalizare/saf_t/).

Once you have generated the XML, open ‘DUKIntegrator’ and select the file you
have just generated.

Click on Validare + creare PDF to create an **unsigned** PDF containing your
report, or Validare + creare PDF semnat to create a **signed** PDF containing
your report.

![The DUKIntegrator validation software.](../../../_images/romania-
dukintegrator.png)

If the _DUKIntegrator_ validator detects errors or inconsistencies in your
data, it generates a file that explains the errors. In this case, you need to
correct those inconsistencies in your data before you can submit the report to
the Romanian Tax Agency.

  *[CUI]: Codul Unic de Inregistrare
  *[CIF]: *Codul de identificare fiscală*

