# Chapter 2: Odoo Web Framework

The first part of this tutorial introduced you to most of Owl ideas. It is now
time to learn about the Odoo JavaScript framework in its entirety, as used by
the web client.

![../../../_images/previously_learned.svg](../../../_images/previously_learned.svg)

For this chapter, we will start from the empty dashboard provided by the
`awesome_tshirt` addon. We will progressively add features to it, using the
Odoo JavaScript framework.

Goal

![../../../_images/overview_02.png](../../../_images/overview_02.png)

Solutions

The solutions for each exercise of the chapter are hosted on the [official
Odoo tutorials
repository](https://github.com/odoo/tutorials/commits/16.0-solutions/awesome_tshirt).

## 1\. A new Layout

Most screens in the Odoo web client uses a common layout: a control panel on
top, with some buttons, and a main content zone just below. This is done using
the [Layout
component](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/16.0/addons/web/static/src/search/layout.js),
available in `@web/search/layout`.

Exercise

Update the `AwesomeDashboard` component located in
`awesome_tshirt/static/src/` to use the `Layout` component. You can use
`{controlPanel: { "top-right": false, "bottom-right": false } }` for the
`display` props of the `Layout` component.

Open <http://localhost:8069/web>, then open the Awesome T-Shirts app, and see
the result.

![../../../_images/new_layout.png](../../../_images/new_layout.png)

See also

  * [Example: use of Layout in client action](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/16.0/addons/web/static/src/webclient/actions/reports/report_action.js) and [template](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/16.0/addons/web/static/src/webclient/actions/reports/report_action.xml)

  * [Example: use of Layout in kanban view](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/16.0/addons/web/static/src/views/kanban/kanban_controller.xml)

## 2\. Add some buttons for quick navigation

Let us now use the action service for an easy access to the common views in
Odoo.

[Services](../../reference/frontend/services.html#frontend-services) is a
notion defined by the Odoo JavaScript framework; it is a persistent piece of
code that exports a state and/or functions. Each service can depend on other
services, and components can import a service with the `useService()` hook.

Example

This shows how to open the settings view from a component using the action
service.

    
    
    import { useService } from "@web/core/utils/hooks";
    ...
    setup() {
        this.action = useService("action");
    }
    openSettings() {
        this.action.doAction("base_setup.action_general_configuration");
    }
    ...
    

Exercise

Let us add three buttons in the control panel bottom left zone.

  1. A button `Customers`, which opens a kanban view with all customers (this action already exists, so you should use [its xml id](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/1f4e583ba20a01f4c44b0a4ada42c4d3bb074273/odoo/addons/base/views/res_partner_views.xml#L525)).

  2. A button `New Orders`, which opens a list view with all orders created in the last 7 days. Use the [Domain](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/1f4e583ba20a01f4c44b0a4ada42c4d3bb074273//addons/web/static/src/core/domain.js#L19) helper class to represent the domain.

Tip

One way to represent the desired domain could be `[('create_date','>=',
(context_today() - datetime.timedelta(days=7)).strftime('%Y-%m-%d'))]`

  3. A button `Cancelled Order`, which opens a list of all orders created in the last 7 days, but already cancelled. Rather than defining the action twice, factorize it in a new `openOrders` method.

![../../../_images/navigation_buttons.png](../../../_images/navigation_buttons.png)

See also

  * [Example: doAction use](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/16.0/addons/account/static/src/components/journal_dashboard_activity/journal_dashboard_activity.js#L35)

  * [Code: action service](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/16.0/addons/web/static/src/webclient/actions/action_service.js)

## 3\. Call the server, add some statistics

Let’s improve the dashboard by adding a few cards (see the `Card` component
[made in the previous chapter](01_owl_components.html#tutorials-discover-js-
framework-generic-card)) containing a few statistics. There is a route
`/awesome_tshirt/statistics` that performs some computations and returns an
object containing some useful information.

Whenever we need to call a specific controller, we need to use the [rpc
service](../../reference/frontend/services.html#frontend-services-rpc). It
only exports a single function that perform the request: `rpc(route, params,
settings)`

Here is a short explanation on the various arguments:

  * `route` is the target route, as a string. For example `/myroute/`.

  * `params` is an object that contains all data that will be given to the controller. (optional)

  * `settings` are for advanced controls on the request. Make it silent, or using a specific xhr instance. (optional)

Example

A basic request could look like this:

    
    
    setup() {
        this.rpc = useService("rpc");
        onWillStart(async () => {
            const result = await this.rpc("/my/controller", {a: 1, b: 2});
            // ...
        });
    }
    

Exercise

  1. Change `Dashboard` so that it uses the `rpc` service.

  2. Call the statistics route `/awesome_tshirt/statistics` in the `onWillStart` hook.

  3. Display a few cards in the dashboard containing:

     * Number of new orders this month

     * Total amount of new orders this month

     * Average amount of t-shirt by order this month

     * Number of cancelled orders this month

     * Average time for an order to go from ‘new’ to ‘sent’ or ‘cancelled’

![../../../_images/statistics.png](../../../_images/statistics.png)

See also

  * [Code: rpc service](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/16.0/addons/web/static/src/core/network/rpc_service.js)

  * [Example: calling a route in onWillStart](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/1f4e583ba20a01f4c44b0a4ada42c4d3bb074273/addons/lunch/static/src/views/search_model.js#L21)

## 4\. Cache network calls, create a service

If you open the Network tab of your browser’s dev tools, you will see that the
call to `/awesome_tshirt/statistics` is done every time the client action is
displayed. This is because the `onWillStart` hook is called each time the
`Dashboard` component is mounted. But in this case, we would prefer to do it
only the first time, so we actually need to maintain some state outside of the
`Dashboard` component. This is a nice use case for a service!

Example

The following example registers a simple service that displays a notification
every 5 seconds.

    
    
    import { registry } from "@web/core/registry";
    const myService = {
        dependencies: ["notification"],
        start(env, { notification }) {
            let counter = 1;
            setInterval(() => {
                notification.add(`Tick Tock ${counter++}`);
            }, 5000);
        },
    };
    registry.category("services").add("myService", myService);
    

Exercise

  1. Register and import a new `awesome_tshirt.statistics` service.

  2. It should provide a function `loadStatistics` that, once called, performs the actual rpc, and always return the same information.

  3. Use the [memoize](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/1f4e583ba20a01f4c44b0a4ada42c4d3bb074273/addons/web/static/src/core/utils/functions.js#L11) utility function from `@web/core/utils/functions` that will allow caching the statistics.

  4. Use this service in the `Dashboard` component.

  5. Check that it works as expected

See also

  * [Example: simple service](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/16.0/addons/web/static/src/core/network/http_service.js)

  * [Example: service with a dependency](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/16.0/addons/web/static/src/core/user_service.js)

## 5\. Display a pie chart

Everyone likes charts (!), so let us add a pie chart in our dashboard. It will
display the proportions of t-shirts sold for each size: S/M/L/XL/XXL.

For this exercise, we will use [Chart.js](https://www.chartjs.org/). It is the
chart library used by the graph view. However, it is not loaded by default, so
we will need to either add it to our assets bundle, or lazy load it. Lazy
loading is usually better since our users will not have to load the chartjs
code every time if they don’t need it.

Exercise

  1. Load chartjs, you can use the [loadJs](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/1f4e583ba20a01f4c44b0a4ada42c4d3bb074273/addons/web/static/src/core/assets.js#L23) function to load `/web/static/lib/Chart/Chart.js`.

  2. In a `Card` (from previous exercises), display a [pie chart](https://www.chartjs.org/docs/2.8.0/charts/doughnut.html) in the dashboard that displays the correct quantity for each sold t-shirts in each size (that information is available in the statistics route).

![../../../_images/pie_chart.png](../../../_images/pie_chart.png)

See also

  * [Example: lazy loading a js file](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/1f4e583ba20a01f4c44b0a4ada42c4d3bb074273/addons/web/static/src/views/graph/graph_renderer.js#L57)

  * [Example: rendering a chart in a component](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/1f4e583ba20a01f4c44b0a4ada42c4d3bb074273/addons/web/static/src/views/graph/graph_renderer.js#L618)

## 6\. Going further

Here is a list of some small improvements you could try to do if you have the
time:

Exercise

  1. Make sure your application can be [translated](../../howtos/translations.html#reference-translations) (with `env._t`).

  2. Clicking on a section of the pie chart should open a list view of all orders which have the corresponding size.

  3. Add a SCSS file and see if you can change the background color of the dashboard action.

![../../../_images/misc.png](../../../_images/misc.png)

See also

  * [Example: use of env._t function](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/1f4e583ba20a01f4c44b0a4ada42c4d3bb074273/addons/account/static/src/components/bills_upload/bills_upload.js#L64)

  * [Code: translation code in web/](https://github.com/odoo/odoo/blob/1f4e583ba20a01f4c44b0a4ada42c4d3bb074273/addons/web/static/src/core/l10n/translation.js#L16)

