# Tutorials

  * [Getting started](tutorials/getting_started.html)
    * [Chapter 1: Architecture Overview](tutorials/getting_started/01_architecture.html)
    * [Chapter 2: Development environment setup](tutorials/getting_started/02_setup.html)
    * [Chapter 3: A New Application](tutorials/getting_started/03_newapp.html)
    * [Chapter 4: Models And Basic Fields](tutorials/getting_started/04_basicmodel.html)
    * [Chapter 5: Security - A Brief Introduction](tutorials/getting_started/05_securityintro.html)
    * [Chapter 6: Finally, Some UI To Play With](tutorials/getting_started/06_firstui.html)
    * [Chapter 7: Basic Views](tutorials/getting_started/07_basicviews.html)
    * [Chapter 8: Relations Between Models](tutorials/getting_started/08_relations.html)
    * [Chapter 9: Computed Fields And Onchanges](tutorials/getting_started/09_compute_onchange.html)
    * [Chapter 10: Ready For Some Action?](tutorials/getting_started/10_actions.html)
    * [Chapter 11: Constraints](tutorials/getting_started/11_constraints.html)
    * [Chapter 12: Add The Sprinkles](tutorials/getting_started/12_sprinkles.html)
    * [Chapter 13: Inheritance](tutorials/getting_started/13_inheritance.html)
    * [Chapter 14: Interact With Other Modules](tutorials/getting_started/14_other_module.html)
    * [Chapter 15: A Brief History Of QWeb](tutorials/getting_started/15_qwebintro.html)
    * [Chapter 16: The final word](tutorials/getting_started/16_final_word.html)
  * [Discover the JS Framework](tutorials/discover_js_framework.html)
    * [Chapter 1: Owl Components](tutorials/discover_js_framework/01_owl_components.html)
    * [Chapter 2: Odoo Web Framework](tutorials/discover_js_framework/02_web_framework.html)
  * [Master the Odoo Web Framework](tutorials/master_odoo_web_framework.html)
    * [Chapter 1: Fields and Views](tutorials/master_odoo_web_framework/01_fields_and_views.html)
    * [Chapter 2: Miscellaneous](tutorials/master_odoo_web_framework/02_miscellaneous.html)
    * [Chapter 3: Custom kanban view](tutorials/master_odoo_web_framework/03_custom_kanban_view.html)
    * [Chapter 4: Creating a view from scratch](tutorials/master_odoo_web_framework/04_creating_view_from_scratch.html)
    * [Chapter 5: Testing](tutorials/master_odoo_web_framework/05_testing.html)
  * [Define module data](tutorials/define_module_data.html)
  * [Restrict access to data](tutorials/restrict_data_access.html)
  * [Safeguard your code with unit tests](tutorials/unit_tests.html)
  * [Reuse code with mixins](tutorials/mixins.html)
  * [Build PDF Reports](tutorials/pdf_reports.html)

#### [Getting startedDevelop your own module with the Odoo framework. This
step-by-step tutorial is crafted for newcomers and any other individual
curious about Odoo development. Beginner](tutorials/getting_started.html)####
[Discover the JavaScript FrameworkLearn the basics of the JavaScript framework
of Odoo. This tutorial will teach you how to work with Owl components and
introduce the basic principles underlying the Odoo JavaScript codebase.
Beginner](tutorials/discover_js_framework.html)#### [Master the Odoo Web
FrameworkBecome an expert in the Odoo Web Framework. A large variety of
features are covered such as fields, views, and even the kitten mode.
Advanced](tutorials/master_odoo_web_framework.html)#### [Define module
dataDefine master and demo data for an Odoo module, leveraging the strengths
of the CSV and XML file formats to accommodate specific data requirements.
Beginner](tutorials/define_module_data.html)#### [Restrict access to
dataImplement security measures to restrict access to sensitive data with the
help of groups, access rights, and record rules.
Beginner](tutorials/restrict_data_access.html)#### [Safeguard your code with
unit testsWrite effective unit tests in Python to ensure the resilience of
your code and safeguard it against unexpected behaviors and regressions.
Beginner](tutorials/unit_tests.html)#### [Reuse code with mixinsCreate mixins
to code features once and reuse them in multiple models.
](tutorials/mixins.html)#### [Build PDF reportsUse QWeb, Odooâ€™s powerful
templating engine, to create custom PDF reports for your documents.
](tutorials/pdf_reports.html)

