# Reporting

Odoo _Helpdesk_ includes several reports that provide the opportunity to track
trends for customer support tickets, identify areas for improvement, manage
employee workloads, and confirm when customer expectations are met.

## Available reports

Details about the reports available in Odoo _Helpdesk_ can be found below. To
view the different reports, go to Helpdesk ‣ Reporting.

### Ticket Analysis

The _Ticket Analysis_ report (Helpdesk ‣ Reporting ‣ Ticket Analysis) provides
an overview of every customer support ticket in the database. This includes
the number of tickets assigned among teams and individual users.

This report is useful in identifying where teams are spending the most time,
and helps determine if there is an uneven workload distribution among the
support staff. The default report counts the number of tickets per team and
groups them by stage.

![View of Ticket Analysis report default view.](../../../../_images/tickets-
default.png)

Alternative measures can be selected to track where the most time is spent at
different points in the workflow. To change the measures used for the report
that is currently displayed, or to add more, click the Measures button, and
select one or more options from the drop-down menu:

  * Average Hours to Respond: average number of working hours between a message sent from the customer and the response from the support team. _This is does not include messages sent when the ticket was in a folded stage_

  * Hours Open: number of hours between the date the ticket was created and the closed date. If there is no closed date on the ticket, the current date is used. **This measure is not specific to working hours**

  * Hours Spent: number of _Timesheet_ hours logged on a ticket. _This measure is only available if Timesheets are enabled on a team, and the current user has the access rights to view them_

  * Hours to Assign: number of working hours between the date on which the ticket was created and when it was assigned to a team member

  * Hours to Close: number of working hours between the date on which the ticket was created and the date it was closed

  * Hours to First Response: number of working hours between the date on which the ticket was received and the date one which the first message was sent. _This does not include email sent automatically when a ticket reaches a stage_

  * Hours to SLA Deadline: number of working hours remaining to reach the last SLA deadline on a ticket

  * Rating /5: number valued assigned to the rating received from a customer (Dissatisfied = 1, Okay/Neutral = 3, Satisfied = 5)

  * Count: number of tickets in total

Note

 _Working hours_ are calculated based on the default working calendar. To view
or change the working calendar, go to the Settings application and select
Employees ‣ Company Working Hours.

### SLA Status Analysis

The _SLA Status Analysis_ report (Helpdesk ‣ Reporting ‣ SLA Status Analysis)
tracks how quickly an SLA (Service Level Agreement) is fulfilled, as well as
the success rate of individual policies.

By default, this report is filtered to show the number of SLAs failed, as well
as the failure rate over the last 30 days, grouped by team.

![View of Group by options of Ticket Analysis
report.](../../../../_images/sla-status.png)

To change the measures used for the report that is currently displayed, or to
add more, click the Measures button, and select one or more options from the
drop-down menu:

  * % of Failed SLA: percentage of tickets that have failed at least one SLA

  * % of SLA in Progress: percentage of tickets that have at least one SLA still in progress, and have not failed any SLAs

  * % of Successful SLA: percentage of tickets where all SLAs have been successful

  * Number of SLA Failed: number of tickets that have failed at least one SLA

  * Number of SLA Successful: number of tickets where all SLAs have been successful

  * Number of SLA in Progress: number of tickets that have at least one SLA still in progress, and have not failed any SLAs

  * Working Hours to Assign: number of working hours between the date on which the ticket was created and when it was assigned to a team member

  * Working Hours to Close: number of working hours between the date on which the ticket was created and the date it was closed

  * Working Hours to Reach SLA: number of working hours between the date on which the ticket was created and the date the SLA was satisfied

  * Count: number of tickets in total

Example

To see the number of tickets that were able to achieve the stated SLA
objectives, and track the amount of time it took to achieve those objectives,
click Measures ‣ Number of SLA Successful and Measures ‣ Working Hours to
Reach SLA.

To sort these results by the team members assigned to the tickets, select
Total ‣ Assigned to.

See also

[Service Level Agreements (SLA)](sla.html)

### Customer Ratings

The _Customer Ratings_ report (Helpdesk ‣ Reporting – Customer Ratings)
displays an overview of the ratings received on individual support tickets, as
well as any additional comments submitted with the rating.

![View of the kanban display in the Customer Ratings
report.](../../../../_images/customer-ratings.png)

Click on an individual rating to see additional details about the rating
submitted by the customer, including a link to the original ticket.

![View of the details of an individual customer
rating.](../../../../_images/ratings-details.png)

Tip

On the rating’s details page, select the Visible Internally Only option to
hide the rating from the customer portal.

The _Customer Ratings_ report is displayed in a kanban view by default, but
can also be displayed in graph, list, or pivot view.

See also

[Ratings](ratings.html)

## View and filter options

On any Odoo report, the view and filter options vary, depending on what data
is being analyzed, measured, and grouped. See below for additional information
on the available views for the _Helpdesk_ reports.

Note

Only one measure may be selected at a time for graphs, but pivot tables can
include multiple measures.

### Pivot view

The _pivot_ view presents data in an interactive manner. All three _Helpdesk_
reports are available in pivot view.

The pivot view can be accessed on any report by selecting the grid icon at the
top right of the screen.

![View of the SLA status analysis report in Odoo
Helpdesk.](../../../../_images/pivot-view1.png)

To add a group to a row or column to the pivot view, click the ➕ (plus sign)
next to Total, and then select one of the groups. To remove one, click the ➖
(minus sign) and de-select the appropriate option.

### Graph view

The _graph_ view presents data in either a _bar_ , _line_ , or _pie_ chart.

Switch to the graph view by selecting the line chart icon at the top right of
the screen. To switch between the different charts, select the _related icon_
at the top left of the chart, while in graph view.

Bar chartLine chartPie chart

![View of the SLA status analysis report in bar
view.](../../../../_images/bar-chart2.png)

![View of the Customer Ratings report in line view.](../../../../_images/line-
chart1.png)

![View of the Ticket analysis report in pie chart
view.](../../../../_images/pie-chart1.png)

Tip

Both the _bar chart_ and _line chart_ can utilize the _stacked_ view option.
This presents two (or more) groups of data on top of each other, instead of
next to each other, making it easier to compare data.

### Save and share a favorite search

The _Favorites_ feature found on _Helpdesk_ reports allows users to save their
most commonly used filters without having to reconstruct them every time they
are needed.

To create and save new _Favorites_ on a report, follow the steps below:

  1. Set the necessary parameters using the Filters, Group By and Measures options.

  2. Click Favorites ‣ Save current search.

  3. Rename the search.

  4. Select Use by default to have these filter settings automatically displayed when the report is opened. Otherwise, leave it blank.

  5. Select Share with all users to make this filter available to all other database users. If this box is not checked, it will only be available to the user who creates it.

  6. Click Save to preserve the configuration for future use.

![View of the save favorites option in Odoo
Helpdesk.](../../../../_images/save-filters.png)

See also

  * [Start receiving tickets](receiving_tickets.html)

  * [Odoo reporting](../../../essentials/reporting.html)

  *[SLA]: Service Level Agreement
  *[SLAs]: Service Level Agreements

