# Service Level Agreements (SLA)

A Service Level Agreement (SLA) defines the level of service a customer can
expect from a supplier. SLAs provide a timeline that tells customers when they
can expect results, and keeps the support team on target.

## Create a new SLA policy

To create a new SLA Policy, navigate to the team’s page under Helpdesk ‣
Configuration ‣ Teams. Select a team, scroll to the Performance section, and
then check the selection box next to SLA Policies to enable it for that
specific team.

![View of a team page in Helpdesk focusing on the SLA Policies
setting](../../../../_images/sla-enable.png)

Note

The value indicated next to the Working Hours field is used to determine the
deadline for SLA policies. By default, this is determined by the value set in
the Company Working Hours field under Settings app ‣ Employees ‣ Work
Organization.

To create a new policy, click the smart button on the team`s settings page or
go to Helpdesk ‣ Configuration ‣ SLA Policies, and click New. Start by
entering a Title and a Description for the new policy, and proceed to fill out
the form using the steps below.

### Define the criteria for an SLA policy

The Criteria section is used to identify what tickets this policy will be
applied to. Fill out the following fields to adjust the selection criteria:

  * Team: a policy can only be applied to one team. _This field is required._

  * Priority: the priority level for a ticket is identified by selecting the number of stars representing the priority level on the kanban card or the ticket itself. The SLA will only be applied once the priority level has been updated on the ticket to match the SLA criteria. If no selection is made in this field, this policy will only apply to tickets marked as `Low Priority` (zero stars).

  * Types: ticket types can be helpful when indicating when a ticket is a customer question, that can be solved with a quick response, or an issue, that may require additional investigation. Multiple ticket types can be selected for this field. If no selection is made, this policy will apply to all ticket types.

  * Tags: tags are applied to briefly indicate what the ticket is about. Multiple tags can be applied to a single ticket.

  * Customers: individual contacts or companies may be selected in this field.

  * Sales Order Items: this field is available only if a team has the _Timesheets_ app enabled. This allows the ticket to tie directly to a specific line on a sales order, which must be indicated on the ticket in the Sales Order Item field.

Note

Unless otherwise indicated, multiple selections can be made for each field.
(i.e. multiple Tags can be included in a policy, but only one Priority level)

![View of a blank SLA policy record](../../../../_images/sla-create-new.png)

### Establish a target for an SLA policy

The Target is the stage a ticket needs to reach, and the time alloted to reach
that stage, in order to satisfy the SLA policy. Any stage assigned to a team
may be selected for the Reach Stage field. Time spent in stages selected in
Excluding Stages will not be included in the calculation of the SLA deadline.

Example

An SLA titled `8 Hours to Close` tracks the working time before a ticket is
completed, and would have `Solved` as the Reach Stage. However, if the SLA was
titled `2 Days to Start`, it tracks the working time before work on a ticket
has begun, and would have `In Progress` as the Reach Stage.

## Meeting SLA deadlines

Once it is determined that a ticket fits the criteria of an SLA policy, a
deadline is calculated. The deadline is based on the creation date of the
ticket, and the targeted working hours. The deadline is then added to the
ticket, as well as a white tag indicating the name of the SLA applied.

![View of a ticket's form emphasizing an open SLA deadline on a ticket in Odoo
Helpdesk](../../../../_images/sla-open-deadline.png)

Important

If a ticket fits the criteria for more than one SLA, the earliest occurring
deadline will be displayed on the ticket. Once that deadline has passed, the
next deadline will be displayed.

Once a ticket satisfies an SLA policy, the SLA tag turns green, and the
Deadline field disappears from view on the.

![View of a ticket's form emphasizing a satisfied SLA in Odoo
Helpdesk](../../../../_images/sla-deadline.png)

If the SLA deadline passes and the ticket has not moved to the Reach Stage,
the SLA tag will turn red. Once the SLA has failed, the red tag will stay on
the ticket, even after the ticket is moved to the Reach Stage.

![View of a ticket's form with a failing and passing SLA in Odoo
Helpdesk](../../../../_images/sla-passing-failing.png)

## Analyzing SLA performance

The SLA Status Analysis report tracks how quickly an SLA is fulfilled, as well
as the success rate of individual policies. Navigate to the report and
corresponding pivot table by going to Helpdesk ‣ Reporting ‣ SLA Status
Analysis.

### Using the Pivot view

By default, the report is displayed in a Pivot view, and is filtered to show
the number of SLAs failed and the failure rate over the last 30 days, grouped
by team.

![View of the SLA status analysis report in Odoo
Helpdesk](../../../../_images/sla-status-analysis.png)

To add the number of SLAs passed or in progress, click the Measures button to
reveal a drop-down menu of reporting criteria, and choose from the options
available based on the measurements preferred. Whenever a measurement is
picked, a check mark will appear in the drop-down menu to indicate that that
measurement is included, and a corresponding new column will emerge in the
pivot table to show the relevant calculations.

To add a group to a row or column, click the plus :guilabel:` + ` button next
to Total, and then select one of the groups. To remove one, click the minus
:guilabel:` - ` button and deselect.

### Using the Graph view

The Status Analysis report can also be viewed as a Bar, Line, or Pie Chart.
Toggle between these views by selecting the appropriate icon at the top of the
chart.

Bar ChartLine ChartPie Chart

![View of the SLA status analysis report in bar view](../../../../_images/sla-
report-bar.png)

![View of the SLA status analysis report in line
view](../../../../_images/sla-report-line.png)

![View of the SLA status analysis report in pie chart
view](../../../../_images/sla-report-pie.png)

Tip

Both the Bar Chart and Line Chart can be viewed Stacked. This presents two or
more groups to appear on top of each other instead of next to each other,
making it easier to compare data.

### Using the Cohort view

The Cohort view is used to track the changes in data over a period of time. To
display the Status Analysis report in a Cohort view, click the icon in the top
right corner above the chart.

![View of the SLA status analysis report in cohort
view](../../../../_images/sla-report-cohort.png)

See also

  * [Reporting views](../../../essentials/reporting.html#reporting-views)

  * [Allow customers to close their tickets](../advanced/close_tickets.html)

  *[SLA]: Service Level Agreement

