# Reporting

The Reporting section of the _Payroll_ app offers a variety of reports to
choose from. The Payroll, Meal Vouchers, Attachment of Salary, and DMFA
reports are universal and available for all companies regardless of location.
The Paid Time Off Allocation, 273S Sheet, and 274.XX Sheets reports are
specific to Belgian companies only.

To view a report, go to Payroll ‣ Reporting and click on the specific report.

![Report dashboard view.](../../../_images/reports.png)

If a report is unavailable to a company, a user error pops up, stating `You
must be logged in to a Belgian company to use this feature.`

At the top of each report, click on Filters to display the optional filters
for the specific report. Filters show information that matches the specific
filter parameters. For example, when selecting the Last 365 Day Payslip
filter, only payslips for the last 365 days appear. All reports have the
option to add a custom filter, and each have different default custom filter
options. Select the parameters, then click the Apply button.

![Report dashboard view.](../../../_images/custom-filter1.png)

Clicking on Favorites displays three options: Save the current search, Add the
search to the dashboard, or Insert the search to a Google spreadsheet.

![Favorite options for reports.](../../../_images/favorites.png)

## Payroll

Click on Payroll ‣ Reporting ‣ Payroll to display the Payroll Analysis report.

![Report dashboard view.](../../../_images/payroll-report.png)

This shows all the payslips generated in the last 365 days. The report can
display metrics for a variety of parameters. Click the Measures box to view a
drop-down menu with the various options to display. The options available
include: # Payslip, Basic Wage, Basic Wage for Time Off, Days of Paid Time
Off, Days of Unforeseen Absence, Days of Unpaid Time Off, Gross Wage, Net
Wage, Number of Days, Number of Hours, Work Days, Work Hours, and Count.

![Report dashboard view.](../../../_images/measures1.png)

### Line chart

A line chart is the default view for the _Payroll Analysis_ report. If a
different view was selected, click on the Line Chart icon (middle icon) in the
menu bar to change the view back to a line chart. An option to display the
line chart in ascending or descending order appears at the end of the options.

![Report dashboard view.](../../../_images/line-chart.png)

### Bar chart

To display the data in a bar chart, click on the Bar Chart icon (first icon)
in the menu bar.

![Report dashboard view.](../../../_images/bar-chart.png)

Click the Stacked icon to view the bar chart in a stacked format (where
multiple values appear in each column). An option to display the columns in
ascending or descending order appears at the end of the options.

Tip

Clicking an option enables it. To disable the option, click it again. When the
option is enabled it appears grey. When it is inactive, it appears white.

### Pie chart

To display the data in a pie chart, click on the Pie Chart icon (last icon) in
the menu bar. There are no additional options available in this view.

![Report dashboard view.](../../../_images/pie-chart.png)

### Pivot table

The bottom half of the Payroll Analysis dashboard presents a pivot table no
matter which type of chart is selected for the top of the dashboard. The
default information displayed is the number of payslips, net wage, gross wage,
days of paid time off, and days of unpaid time off. The information is divided
by department. To display more information on the report, select the Measures
drop-down menu, then click on any other items to display.

![Report dashboard view.](../../../_images/measures-bottom.png)

To sort the entries by a specific column, such as Net Wage, click on the
column name twice. The first click selects the column, and the second click
sorts the information in descending order.

![To sort information by descending order, click the column head
twice.](../../../_images/net-wage.png)

To export the data in an XLSX format, click the Download xlsx icon. The
information will be downloaded into an Excel spreadsheet.

![Download an Excel spreadsheet of the data by clicking the download
button.](../../../_images/export1.png)

The data can be inserted into a spreadsheet by clicking the Insert in
Spreadsheet button. A pop-up appears asking which spreadsheet to place the
information in. Select an existing spreadsheet or enter the name for a new
spreadsheet. Click the Confirm button to move to a spreadsheet view with all
the information populated.

![Send the data to a spreadsheet.](../../../_images/spreadsheet.png)

Once in the spreadsheet view, click on File, then select Save to save the
data, or Save as Template to save the setting as a template to use in the
future.

Note

The _Documents_ application must be installed in order to use the Insert in
Spreadsheet option.

## Meal Vouchers

Meal Vouchers provides an overview of the meal vouchers used by employees, and
can be shown by Day, Week, Month, Quarter, or Year. The default view is by
month.

![Meal voucher](../../../_images/meal-vouchers.png)

To change the displayed view, click on Total. The data collapses, showing only
the count column. Click on Total again, then hover over Day, then click on one
of the other time-period options available.

![Meal voucher](../../../_images/voucher-day.png)

It is possible to compare the current meal voucher report to the one for the
previous time period or the previous year. To view these comparisons, click on
the Comparison drop-down menu at the top, then select either Date: Previous
Period or Date: Previous Year.

![Meal voucher](../../../_images/meal-comparison.png)

To export the data in an XLSX format, click the Download xlsx icon. The
information will be downloaded into an Excel spreadsheet.

![Download an Excel spreadsheet of the data by clicking the download
button.](../../../_images/voucher-download.png)

The data can be inserted into a spreadsheet by clicking the Insert in
Spreadsheet button. A pop-up appears asking which spreadsheet to place the
information in. Select an existing spreadsheet or enter the name for a new
spreadsheet. Click the Confirm button to move to a spreadsheet view with all
the information populated.

Once in the spreadsheet view, click on File, then select Save to save the
data, or Save as Template to save the settings as a template to use in the
future.

Note

The _Documents_ application must be installed in order to use the Insert in
Spreadsheet option.

## Attachment of Salary

The Attachment of Salary report shows all deductions or allocations per
employee, such as child support payments and wage garnishments.

![View the Attachment of Salary report that shows all salary
garnishments.](../../../_images/attachment-of-salary.png)

The employees are listed in the left-side column, while the different
deductions are listed in the top row, organized by month.

The report can be exported as a XLSX file, or inserted into a spreadsheet,
using the corresponding buttons at the top.

Clicking on the Measures button shows options for how the data is displayed.
Assignment of salary, Attachment of salary, Child support, and Count, can all
be selected or deselected by clicking on the item. If an item has a check
mark, it is displayed.

![Select the options that be displayed in the
report.](../../../_images/attachment-measures.png)

The salary attachment report can be compared to the one for the previous time
period or the previous year. To view these comparisons, click on the on the
Comparison drop-down menu at the top, then select either Payslip End Date:
Previous Period or Payslip End Date: Previous Year.

