# Process receipts and deliveries in one step

By default, incoming shipments are configured to be received directly into
stock, and outgoing shipments are configured to be delivered directly from
stock to the customer; the default setting for warehouses in Odoo is one step
receipts and deliveries.

Note

Incoming and outgoing shipments do not need to be configured with the same
steps. For example, products can be received in one step, but shipped in three
steps.

In the following example, one step will be used for both receipts and
deliveries.

## Configure the warehouse

If another receiving or shipping configuration is set on the warehouse, they
can easily be set back to the one step setting.

Begin by navigating to Inventory ‚Ä£ Configuration ‚Ä£ Warehouses, and click on
the desired warehouse to edit. Next, on the Warehouse Configuration tab, under
the Shipments section, select Receive goods directly (1 step) for Incoming
Shipments and/or Deliver goods directly (1 step) for Outgoing Shipments.

![Set incoming and outgoing shipment options to receive and deliver in one
step.](../../../../../_images/one-step-warehouse-config.png)

## Receive goods directly (1 step)

### Create a purchase order

On the main Purchase application dashboard, start by making a new quote by
clicking New. Then, select (or create) a Vendor from the drop-down field, add
a storable Product to the order lines, and click Confirm Order to finalize the
quote as a new purchase order.

A Receipt smart button will appear in the top-right corner of the PO form ‚Äî
click it to reveal the associated receipt for the purchase order.

![Receipt smart button appears on the confirmed purchase
order.](../../../../../_images/one-step-po-receipt.png)

Tip

Purchase order receipts can also be found in the Inventory application. In the
Overview dashboard, click the # to Process smart button in the Receipts kanban
card.

![Receipt kanban card's 1 to Process smart
button.](../../../../../_images/one-step-to-process-btn.png)

### Process the receipt

When viewing the receipt (associated with the purchase order above), click
Validate to then complete the receipt.

![Validate the purchase order via the Validate smart
button.](../../../../../_images/one-step-po-validate.png)

Note

If Storage Locations are activated, clicking the ‚â£ (bullet list) details icon
next to the üóëÔ∏è (trash) delete icon enables the Detailed Operations screen to
pop-up. This allows the location(s) to be specified for the received
product(s).

![Select the Storage Location for the products being received in the Detailed
Operations pop-up.](../../../../../_images/receive-storage-location.png)

Once the receipt is validated, the product leaves the Supplier Location and
enters the WH/Stock Location. Once it arrives here, it will be available for
manufacturing, sales, etc. Then, the status of the document will change to
Done, thus completing the reception process in one step.

## Deliver goods directly (1 step)

### Create a sales order

Start my navigating to the main Sales app dashboard, and make a new quote by
clicking New. Then select (or create) a Customer from the drop-down field, add
a storable Product that is in stock to the order lines, and click Confirm to
finalize the quotation as a sales order.

A Receipt smart button will appear in the top-right corner of the PO form ‚Äî
click it to reveal the associated receipt for the purchase order.

A Delivery smart button will appear in the top-right corner of the SO form ‚Äî
click it to reveal the associated delivery order for the sales order.

![The Delivery smart button appears after the sales order is
confirmed.](../../../../../_images/one-step-sales-order.png)

Tip

Delivery orders can also be found in the Inventory application. In the
Overview dashboard, click the # to Process smart button in the Delivery Orders
kanban card.

![Delivery Orders kanban card's 1 to Process smart
button.](../../../../../_images/one-step-delivery-to-process.png)

### Process the delivery

When viewing the delivery order (associated with the sales order above), click
Validate to then complete the delivery.

![Validate the delivery order.](../../../../../_images/validate-one-step-
sales-order.png)

Once the picking order is validated, the product leaves the WH/Stock location
and moves to the Partners/Customers location. Then, the status of the document
will change to Done, thus completing delivery in one step.

  *[PO]: purchase order
  *[SO]: Sales Order

