# Updating (IoT)

Due to the complexity of the IoT box, and virtual Windows IoT box, the term
‘updating’ can mean several different things.

The actual drivers can be updated, the core code on the IoT box can be
updated, or a new image can be flashed (using a physical IoT box).

This document explores the various ways to update IoT boxes to ensure smooth
operation of IoT box processes and devices.

## Flashing the SD card on IoT box

Important

This update does **not** apply to the Windows IoT box (Odoo 16 and higher).

To update the Windows IoT, first, uninstall the previous version of the Odoo
Windows program, and then reinstall it using the most up-to-date installation
package.

To begin the installation, navigate to the Odoo 16 (or higher) installation
package for Enterprise or Community - Windows edition, at [Odoo’s download
page](https://odoo.com/download).

In some circumstances, the IoT box’s micro SD Card may need to be re-flashed
with _Etcher_ software to benefit from Odoo’s latest IoT image update. This
means the Odoo IoT box software may need to be updated in instances of a new
IoT box, or when a handler’s update, or an update from the IoT box home page,
does not resolve issues.

Note

  * It is often necessary to re-flash the IoT box’s image after upgrading the Odoo database to a new version.

  * A computer with a micro SD card reader/adapter is **required** to re-flash the micro SD card.

First, begin by downloading [Etcher](https://www.balena.io/etcher#download-
etcher). It is a free, open-source utility, used for burning image files onto
drives. After the download completes, install and launch the program on the
computer.

Then, download the latest IoT image from
[nightly](http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox), which will be labeled as
`iotbox-latest.zip`. This particular image is compatible with _all_ supported
versions of Odoo.

After this step is complete, insert the IoT box’s micro SD card into the
computer or reader. Open _Etcher_ , and select Flash from file, then find and
select the `iotbox-latest.zip` image and extract it. Next, select the drive
the image should be burned to.

Lastly, click Flash, and wait for the process to finish.

![Balena's Etcher software dashboard.](../../../../_images/etcher-app.png)

Tip

Balena’s _Etcher_ software also allows for the administrator to flash the SD
card from a URL. To flash from a URL, simply click Flash from URL, instead of
Flash from file.

Then, enter the following: `http://nightly.odoo.com/master/iotbox/iotbox-
latest.zip`.

![A view of Balena's Etcher software, with the flash from URL option
highlighted.](../../../../_images/url-flash.png)

Note

An alternative software for flashing the micro SD card is [Raspberry Pi
Imager](https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/).

## Windows IoT update

Windows virtual IoT box may occasionally need an update to work properly.

The following processes cover the uninstallation and re-installation of the
Windows virtual IoT box.

### Uninstalling Windows IoT

Prior to upgrading the Windows virtual IoT box, the previous version should be
uninstalled first.

Important

Before uninstalling a previous version of the Windows virtual IoT box, ensure
that there is a newer version of Windows virtual IoT box available, compared
to the version currently installed. To do so, navigate to the [Odoo Nightly
builds](https://nightly.odoo.com/) page.

On the Odoo Nightly builds page, navigate to Builds (stable version) ‣
windows/ to view the date next to the `odoo_(version).latest.exe` file; where
_(version)_ is equal to the version of Odoo (e.g. 16.0, 17.0). The latest
version of the Windows virtual IoT box can be downloaded by selecting this
file, or it is always available at the [Odoo
Download](https://odoo.com/download/) page.

Uninstalling the Windows virtual IoT box is done through the Windows program
manager.

On any version of Windows, search for `program` to open the Programs ‣
Programs and Features section of the Control Panel. Then, select Uninstall or
change a program. Next, search for `Odoo`, and click the … (three dot) menu on
the Odoo.exe program to uninstall.

Confirm the uninstallation, and follow the steps to uninstall through the Odoo
uninstall wizard.

### Download and re-install

The latest version of the Windows virtual IoT box can be downloaded from the
[Odoo Nightly builds](https://nightly.odoo.com/) page or it is always
available at the [Odoo Download](https://odoo.com/download/) page.

To download from the Odoo Nightly builds page, navigate to Builds (stable
version) ‣ windows/ to and select the `odoo_(version).latest.exe` file; where
_(version)_ is equal to the version of Odoo (e.g. 16.0, 17.0).

To download from the Odoo Download page, find the section for the version of
Odoo (e.g. 16.0, 17.0), and select the Download button for Windows.

Next, install and setup the downloaded Odoo `.exe` file. After the
instructions screen, click Next to start the installation, and agree to the
TOS.

During the next step of the re-installation, select Odoo IoT from the Select
the type of install drop-down menu.

Example

For reference, the following should be installed:

  * Odoo server

  * Odoo IoT

  * Nginx WebServer

  * Ghostscript interpreter

Ensure there is enough space on the computer for the installation, then click
Next.

### Set the destination and complete the installation

To complete the re-installation, select the Destination Folder, and click
Install.

Warning

Choosing `C:\odoo` as the install location allows for the _Nginx_ server to
start. Odoo’s Windows virtual IoT box software should **not** be installed
inside any of the Windows user’s directories. Doing so does **not** allow for
_Nginx_ to initialize.

The installation may take a few minutes. When complete, click Next to
continue.

Then, ensure that the Start Odoo box is checked, and click Finish. After
installation, the Odoo server runs, and automatically opens
`http://localhost:8069` on a web browser. The webpage should display the IoT
box homepage.

Tip

A [restart](windows_iot.html#iot-restart-windows-iot) of the Windows IoT
program may be necessary if the web browser does not display anything.

## Update from the IoT box home page

In the background, the IoT box uses a version of Odoo code to run and connect
to the Odoo database. This code may need to be updated in order for the IoT
box to operate effectively. This operation should be completed on a routine
basis, to ensure the IoT system, and its processes, stay up-to-date.

Go to the IoT box home page by navigating to IoT app ‣ IoT Boxes, and clicking
on the IP address of the IoT box. Then, click on Update (next to the version
number).

If a new version of the IoT box image is available, an Upgrade to _xx.xx_
button appears at the bottom of the page. Click this button to upgrade the
unit, at which point the IoT box flashes itself to the newer version. All of
the previous configurations are then saved.

Important

This process can take more than 30 minutes. Do **not** turn off, or unplug,
the IoT box, as it would leave it in an inconsistent state. This means the IoT
box needs to be re-flashed with a new image.

![IoT box software upgrade in the IoT Box Home
Page.](../../../../_images/flash-upgrade.png)

## Handler (driver) update

There may be some instances where drivers or interfaces need to be updated for
individual devices (e.g. scales, measurement tools, etc.). The IoT handler’s
(drivers and interfaces) code can be modified by syncing them with the
configured server handler’s code.

This can be helpful in instances where IoT devices (e.g. scales, measurement
tools, etc.) are not working properly with the IoT box.

For both the Windows IoT (Odoo 16 and higher) and physical IoT box, this
process can be performed manually from the IoT box home page. Go to the IoT
box home page by navigating to IoT app ‣ IoT Boxes, and clicking on the IP
address of the IoT box.

Next, click Handlers list, and then select Load Handlers at the bottom of the
page.

![Handlers list on an IoT box with the load handlers button
highlighted.](../../../../_images/load-handlers.png)

Important

Handler’s code is fetched from the configured server, and it needs to be up-
to-date to have the latest fixes and patches.

Note

A handler update is also performed automatically each time the IoT box is
restarted. The only exception to this process is if the _Automatic drivers
update_ is unchecked in the form view of the IoT box on the Odoo server. This
setting can be reached by going to IoT App ‣ Select the IoT box ‣ Automatic
drivers update.

  *[IoT]: Internet of Things
  *[SD]: Secure Digital
  *[URL]: Uniform Resource Locator
  *[TOS]: Terms of Service

