# Reports

As we know, understanding how our business is going, and where it is going, is
key to success. And particularly so when we offer subscription services or
products.

Before getting to the heart of the matter, it is very important to recall
certain essential concepts to the proper understanding of the following
reports:

  * **Monthly Recurring Revenue (MRR)** : MRR is arguably the most important metric for subscription businesses. It shows the monthly revenue earned with subscription-based products or services. It is a consistent number used to track all recurring revenue over time, in monthly increments.

  * **Annual Run-Rate (ARR)** : ARR is the yearly version of MRR, which is based on the current MRR, to estimate the coming year’s performance. However, this estimation does not take variations and growth into account.

![Difference between MRR and ARR in Odoo
Subscriptions](../../../_images/difference-between-MRR-and-ARR.png)

  * **Non-Recurring Revenue (NRR)** : NRR shows the revenue earned for everything else than subscription-based products or services. This includes gains of a rare or unique nature that are unlikely to occur in the ordinary course of businesses.

  * **Customer Retention** : Practices to engage existing customers to continue buying products or services from your business. Customer retention can be a challenge, because you must prove you are worthy of your customers’ trust.

  * **Churn Rate** : Also known as the Rate of Attrition or Customer Churn, the churn rate can be defined, in this case, as the percentage of subscribers who discontinued their subscriptions within a given time period. We can distinguish two types of Churn:

    * **Logo Churn** : It corresponds to the subscription cancellation rate.

    * **Revenue Churn** : It corresponds to the monthly recurring revenue loss rate.

Example

Let’s imagine a 2$ increase in a subscription service.

      * We lost 3 customers out of the initial 20, which generates a **Logo Churn** of 15%.

      * Therefore, the 56$ of MRR difference out of the initial 600$ causes a **Revenue Churn**

of 9,33%.

![Difference between logo churn and revenue churn in Odoo
Subscriptions](../../../_images/difference-between-logo-churn-and-revenue-
churn.png)

Reminder: even though they seem to evolve in the same direction most of the
time, it might not be the case all the time.

  * **Customer Lifetime Value (CLV)** : Indicates how much revenue can be expected for a customer during his/her entire contract. This approach emphasizes the importance of customer retention, shifting our focus from a quarterly or yearly approach to a long-term one.

Check out the different kinds of reports you can access from the **Odoo
Subscriptions** application.

## Subscriptions analysis report

Go to Subscriptions ‣ Reporting ‣ Subscriptions. From there, you can change
the _Measures_. By default, Odoo uses the _Monthly Recurring Revenue_. In
addition to that, you can choose _Quantity_ , _Recurring Price_ , _Yearly
Recurring Revenue_ and _Count_. For this example, _Quantity_ is added. This
way, you can review both of these measures at the same time. You can even
_Group By Start Date_ and, more precisely, by _Week_ , to get a clear view of
your report.

![Subscriptions analysis report in Odoo
Subscriptions](../../../_images/subscriptions-analysis-report.png)

## Retention analysis report

Go to Subscriptions ‣ Reporting ‣ Retention. The default measure applied is
_Count_ , but you can change to the appropriate one for you. For the example
below, _Monthly Recurring Revenue_ was chosen, and the _Month_ periodicity
remains intact. By using these criteria, you can see the progression of the
retention from its start.

![Retention analysis report in Odoo Subscriptions](../../../_images/retention-
analysis-report.png)

## Revenue KPIs report

Go to Subscriptions ‣ Reporting ‣ Revenue KPIs. From there, you can check
different KPIs: _Monthly Recurring Revenue_ , _Net Revenue_ , _Non-Recurring
Revenue_ , _Revenue per Subscription_ , _Annual Run-Rate_ , _Lifetime Value_ ,
and more. You can also filter this information on subscriptions, companies,
and sales teams. This is useful if you are looking for specific information.

![Revenue KPIs report in Odoo Subscriptions](../../../_images/revenue-KPIs-
report.png)

The example below shows the _Monthly Recurring Revenue_ detailed report. At
the moment, there is no data, which is the typical scenario for a new
business. But, as your company grows over the months, these graphs get
populated with more and more data. Once again, you can filter these specific
KPIs on subscriptions, companies, and sales teams.

![Detailed MRR report in Odoo Subscriptions](../../../_images/detailed-MRR-
report.png)

## Salesperson dashboard report

Go to Subscriptions ‣ Reporting ‣ Salesperson Dashboard. This page gives you a
summary of your _Monthly Recurring Revenue_ , _Non-Recurring Revenue_ ,
_Subscription modifications_ , and _Non-Recurring Invoices_ for each of your
salespeople. You can choose the period you want to apply and the salesperson
you want to analyze.

![Salesperson dashboard report in Odoo
Subscriptions](../../../_images/salesperson-dashboard-report.png)

See also

  * [Subscriptions](../subscriptions.html)

  * [Subscription plans](plans.html)

  * [Subscription products](products.html)

