# Cluster picking

Cluster picking is an advanced order fulfillment approach derived from [batch
picking](batch_transfers.html#inventory-misc-batch-picking).

In this strategy, pickers load a cart with multiple packages, each designated
for a specific _sales order_ (SO). Then, the picker travels to each storage
location, and places the products directly in the package of the associated
order.

This method is most efficient for medium-sized companies, with high order
volumes, and relatively few unique products, since the method eliminates the
need for sorting products into packages for customers after picking.

However, cluster picking does have some disadvantages. For instance, urgent
orders cannot be prioritized, and optimized batches must be manually created
beforehand. As a result, the picking process can lead to bottlenecks.

Example

  1. SO 1 calls for one apple and orange

  2. SO 2 calls for one apple and banana

  3. SO 3 calls for one apple, orange, and banana

Apples are stored in Shelf A, oranges in Shelf B, and bananas in Shelf C.

To pick products for three orders at once, the cart is loaded with three empty
packages.

Starting at Shelf A, the picker places apples into each package. Next, the
picker navigates to Shelf B, and places oranges in the packages designated for
SO 1 and SO 3\. Finally, the picker pushes the cart to Shelf C, and loads
packages for SO 2 and SO 3 with a banana, each.

With the packages for all three SOs packed, the picker pushes the cart to the
output location, where the packages are sealed and prepared for shipment.

![Show example of fulfilling sales orders 2 and 3 at
once.](../../../../../_images/cluster-example.png)

## Configuration

To enable cluster picking, begin by navigating to Inventory app ‣
Configuration ‣ Settings. Under the Operations heading, activate the Packages
and Batch Transfers options.

![Activate *Packages* and *Batch Transfers* features in the
settings.](../../../../../_images/configs.png)

Since batch picking is used to optimize the _pick_ operation in Odoo, the
Storage Locations and Multi-Step Routes options, under the Warehouse heading,
must also be checked on this settings page.

_Storage locations_ allow products to be stored in specific locations they can
be picked from, while _multi-step routes_ enable the picking operation itself.

When finished, click Save.

![Activez les fonctionnalités *Emplacements de stockage* et *Routes en
plusieurs étapes* dans Inventaire > Configuration >
Paramètres.](../../../../../_images/locations-routes-checkbox1.png)

### Packages setup

After the Packages feature is enabled, navigate to Inventory app ‣ Products ‣
Packages, and click the New button to create a new package.

On the new package form, the Package Reference is pre-filled with the next
available `PACK` number in the system. Pack Date is automatically set to the
creation date of the form.

Set the Package Use field to Reusable Box.

Pour plus d'infos

[Packages](../../product_management/product_tracking/package.html)

Example

A package intended for cluster picking is named `CLUSTER-PACK-3` for easy
identification. For this workflow, the products are directly packed using
their intended shipping boxes, so Package Use is set to Disposable Box.

![Create new package form.](../../../../../_images/cluster-package.png)

## Create cluster batch

To see how cluster picking works in Odoo, navigate to the Sales app, and
create SOs that will be fulfilled together in the same batch. After confirming
an SO, the Delivery smart button becomes visible. Displayed inside the icon is
a number representing the amount of steps in the outgoing shipment process.

Example

Begin by creating three SOs for the apples, oranges, and bananas, as shown in
the example above.

After confirming the SO, the Delivery smart button displays the number `2`,
indicating there are two operations to complete: `Pick` and `Delivery`.

![Example sales order for an apple, orange, and
banana.](../../../../../_images/create-sales-order.png)

With the SOs created, orders now must be grouped into batches. To do so,
navigate to the _Inventory_ dashboard and select the operation type card,
Delivery Orders or Pick (whichever is the first operation in the delivery
flow).

Doing so displays a filtered list of outgoing operations with the Ready
status, indicating that all the products in the SO are in stock.

Note

Cluster pick batches can be created for outgoing shipments in one, two, or
three steps.

Pour plus d'infos

  * [Delivery in one step](../../shipping_receiving/daily_operations/receipts_delivery_one_step.html#inventory-receipts-delivery-one-step)

  * [Livraison en deux étapes](../../shipping_receiving/daily_operations/receipts_delivery_two_steps.html#inventory-receipts-delivery-two-steps)

  * [Livraison en trois étapes](../../shipping_receiving/daily_operations/delivery_three_steps.html#inventory-delivery-three-steps)

Click the checkbox to the left of the corresponding outgoing operation to add
them to the batch. With the desired pickings selected, click the ⚙️ Actions
(gear) button, and select the Add to batch option from the resulting drop-down
menu.

Example

To create a cluster batch, as shown in the example above, in a warehouse
configured with two-step outgoing shipments, the following pick operations are
selected:

  * `WH/PICK/00007`: linked to SO 88 for one apple and orange.

  * `WH/PICK/00008`: linked to SO 89 for one apple and banana.

  * `WH/PICK/00009`: linked to SO 90 for one apple, orange, and banana.

![Utiliser le bouton *Ajouter au lot*, dans la liste du bouton
*Action*.](../../../../../_images/select-picks.png)

Cette action ouvre une fenêtre contextuelle Ajouter au lot, dans laquelle
l’employé Responsable du transfert peut être désigné.

Choose from the two options in the Add to field to either: add to an existing
batch transfer, or create a new batch transfer.

To create draft batch pickings to be confirmed at a later date, select the
Draft checkbox.

Terminez le processus en cliquant sur Confirmer.

![Afficher la fenêtre *Ajouter au lot* pour créer un transfert par
lot.](../../../../../_images/add-to-batch-window1.png)

## Process batches

To process batches, navigate to Inventory app ‣ Operations ‣ Batch Transfers.
Click on a batch to select it.

In the Detailed Operations tab, products that are to be picked are grouped by
location.

Under the Source Package or Destination Package field, enter the package used
for the picking.

Note

Use the Source Package field when the picking package is configured as
_reusable_ on the package form. This means the products are temporarily placed
in a container during picking, before getting transferred to their final
shipping box.

Alternatively, use the Destination Package field when the product is directly
placed in its _disposable_ shipping box during picking.

Example

Process the cluster batch for the three orders of apples, oranges, and bananas
example by assigning each picking to a dedicated package.

At the storage location for apples, `WH/Stock/Shelf A`, assign the apples in
all three pickings to one of the three disposable packages, `CLUSTER-PACK-1`,
`CLUSTER-PACK-2`, or `CLUSTER-PACK-3`.

Record this in Odoo using the Destination Package field in the Detailed
Operations tab.

![Example of processing cluster pickings in
*Inventory*.](../../../../../_images/cluster-batch-example.png)

### In Barcode

To process cluster pickings directly from the _Barcode_ app, select the Batch
Transfers button from the _Barcode_ dashboard. Then, select the desired batch.

On the batch transfer screen, the products in the picking are grouped by
location, and each line is color-coded to associate products in the same
picking together.

Then, follow the prompt to Scan the source location barcode for the storage
location of the first product. Then, scan the barcode for the product and
package to process the transfer.

Repeat this for all products, and click the Validate button.

Note

To find the package barcode, navigate to Inventory app ‣ Products ‣ Packages,
select the desired package, click the ⚙️ (gear) icon at the top of the package
form, and select the Print option.

Next, select one of the three print options to generate the package barcode
from the Package Reference field.

![Display where the package barcode can be
generated.](../../../../../_images/find-package-barcode.png)

Example

Begin processing the cluster picking by going to the first storage location,
`Shelf A`, and scanning the [location
barcode](../../../barcode/setup/software.html#barcode-setup-location). Doing
so highlights all the pickings that need products from this particular
location.

Scan the barcode for the apple, which highlights the picking (labeled in red)
for the product `Apple`, for the picking, `WH/PICK/00007`.

Then, scan the `CLUSTER-PACK-1` package barcode, and place the product in the
designated package.

![Example of cluster batch from the *Barcode*
app.](../../../../../_images/batch-barcode.png)

Astuce

After creating a batch transfer and assigning a package to a picking, Odoo
suggests the specified package by displaying the name _in italics_ under the
product name, ensuring pickers place products into the correct boxes.

  *[SO]: Sales Order
  *[SOs]: Sales Orders

