# Adyen

Connecting an **Adyen payment terminal** allows you to offer a fluid payment
flow to your customers and ease the work of your cashiers.

Important

  * Adyen payment terminals do not require an [IoT Box](../../../../general/iot.html).

  * Adyen terminals can be used in many countries, but not worldwide. Check the [List of countries supported by Adyen](https://docs.adyen.com/point-of-sale/what-we-support/supported-languages/).

  * Adyen works only with businesses processing more than **$10 million annually** or invoicing a minimum of **1,000 transactions per month**.

See also

  * [List of payment methods supported by Adyen](https://docs.adyen.com/point-of-sale/what-we-support/payment-methods/)

  * [List of Adyen terminals](https://docs.adyen.com/point-of-sale/what-we-support/select-your-terminals/)

## Configuration

Start by creating your Adyen account on [Adyen’s
website](https://www.adyen.com/). Then, board your terminal following the
steps described on your terminal’s screen.

See also

[Adyen Docs - Payment terminal quickstart
guides](https://docs.adyen.com/point-of-sale/user-manuals)

### Generate an Adyen API key

The **Adyen API key** is used to authenticate requests from your Adyen
terminal. To generate an API key, go to your Adyen account ‣ Developers ‣ API
credentials, and **create** new credentials or select **existing** ones. Click
Generate an API key and save the key to paste it into the Odoo Adyen API key
field at the payment method creation.

See also

  * [Adyen Docs - API credentials](https://docs.adyen.com/development-resources/api-credentials#generate-api-key).

### Locate the Adyen terminal identifier

The **Adyen Terminal Identifier** is the terminal’s serial number, which is
used to identify the hardware.

To find this number, go to your Adyen account ‣ Point of Sale ‣ Terminals,
select the terminal to link with, and save its serial number to paste it into
the Odoo Adyen Terminal Identifier field at the payment method creation.

### Set the Event URLs

For Odoo to know when a payment is made, you must configure the terminal
**Event URLs**. To do so,

  1. Log in to [Adyen’s website](https://www.adyen.com/);

  2. Go to Adyen’s dashboard ‣ Point of Sale ‣ Terminals and select the connected terminal;

  3. From the terminal settings, click Integrations;

  4. Set the Switch to decrypted mode to edit this setting field as Decrypted;

  5. Click the **pencil icon** button and enter your server address, followed by `/pos_adyen/notification` in the Event URLs field;

  6. Click Save at the bottom of the screen to save changes.

### Configure the payment method

Enable the payment terminal [in the application
settings](../../configuration.html#configuration-settings) and [create the
related payment method](../../payment_methods.html). Set the journal type as
Bank and select Adyen in the Use a Payment Terminal field.

Finally, fill in the mandatory fields with your Adyen API key, Adyen Terminal
Identifier, and Adyen Merchant Account.

![../../../../../_images/payment-method1.png](../../../../../_images/payment-
method1.png)

Once the payment method is created, you can select it in your POS settings. To
do so, go to the [POS’ settings](../../configuration.html#configuration-
settings), click Edit, and add the payment method under the Payments section.

## Pay with a payment terminal

When processing a payment, select Adyen as the payment method. Check the
amount and click on Send. Once the payment is successful, the status changes
to Payment Successful.

Note

  * In case of connection issues between Odoo and the payment terminal, force the payment by clicking on Force Done, which allows you to validate the order.

This option is only available after receiving an error message informing you
that the connection failed.

  * To cancel the payment request, click on cancel.

