# SIX

Connecting a **SIX payment terminal** allows you to offer a fluid payment flow
to your customers and ease the work of your cashiers.

Warning

Even though Worldline has acquired SIX Payment Services and both companies use
Yomani payment terminals, the firmware they run is different. Terminals
received from Worldline are, therefore, not compatible with this integration.

## Configuration

### Install the POS IoT Six module

To activate the POS IoT Six module, go to Apps, remove the Apps filter, and
search for **POS IoT Six**. This module adds the necessary driver and
interface to your database to detect Six terminals.

Note

This module replaces the **POS Six** module.

### Connect an IoT box

Connecting a Six payment terminal to Odoo is requires [using a Raspberry Pi or
virtual (for Windows OS only) IoT
box](../../../../general/iot/config/connect.html).

### Configure the terminal ID

Navigate to your IoT Box homepage, where you can find the Six payment terminal
field once your database server is connected to the IoT box. Click Configure,
fill in the Terminal ID field with the ID received from Six, and click
Connect. Your Six terminal ID should appear in the Current Terminal Id
section.

![Setting the Six terminal ID](../../../../../_images/terminal-id.png)

Odoo automatically restarts the IoT box when the Six terminal ID is
configured. If your Six terminal is online, it will be automatically detected
and connected to the database. Check the IoT box homepage under the Payments
section to confirm the connection.

![Confirming the connection to the Six payment
terminal](../../../../../_images/id-configured.png)

### Configure the payment method

Enable the payment terminal [in the application
settings](../../configuration.html#configuration-settings) and [create the
related payment method](../../payment_methods.html). Set the journal type as
Bank and select SIX IOT in the Use a Payment Terminal field. Then, select your
terminal device in the Payment Terminal Device field.

![Creating a new payment method for the SIX payment
terminal](../../../../../_images/new-payment-method.png)

Once the payment method is created, you can select it in your POS settings. To
do so, go to the [POSâ€™ settings](../../configuration.html#configuration-
settings), click Edit, and add the payment method under the Payments section.

## Pay with a payment terminal

When processing a payment, select your Six payment method in the Payment
Method section and click Send. To cancel the payment request, click Cancel.
Once the payment is successful, the status switches to Payment Successful.

![Paying with Six](../../../../../_images/payment.png)

Note

  * Once your payment is processed, the type of card used and the transaction ID appear on the payment record.

  * The language used for error messages is the same as the Six terminal. Configure the terminal to change the language or contact Six.

  * By default, the port used by the Six terminal is `7784`.

Tip

If there are connection issues between the payment terminal and Odoo, you can
still force the payment validation in Odoo using the Force Done button.

