# Amazon Connector configuration

Odoo allows users to register an Amazon seller account in the database, but
the user **must** have a paid Amazon Seller account prior to completing the
configuration.

Set up a paid Seller account on Amazon by first logging into the Amazon
platform, and navigating to Account & Lists ‣ Start a Selling Account from the
drop-down menu located in the header section.

Then on the Sell with Amazon page, follow the sign-up process and finally
proceed to follow the instructions below to register and link that Amazon
Seller account in Odoo.

See also

[Sell with Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/b/?node=12766669011)

## Connect Amazon Seller account to Odoo

To connect an Amazon Seller account in Odoo, navigate to Sales app ‣
Configuration ‣ Settings ‣ Connectors section, activate the Amazon Sync
feature, and click Save.

Then, return to Sales app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings ‣ Connectors section, and
click on the Amazon Accounts link under the Amazon Sync setting.

![The Amazon Accounts link beneath the Amazon Sync settings in Odoo
Sales.](../../../../_images/amazon-accounts-link-setting.png)

Doing so reveals a separate Amazon Accounts page. From here, click New to
create and link a new Amazon account.

On the blank Amazon Account form page, start by choosing a name for the
account (e.g. `American Marketplace`). Then, in the Credentials tab, select
the marketplace on which the seller account was initially created from the
Home Marketplace drop-down menu.

![A typical Amazon Account form page in the Odoo Sales
application.](../../../../_images/amazon-accounts-form-page.png)

After saving, the field in the Credentials tab is replaced by a Link with
Amazon button.

![A typical Amazon Account form page and Link with Amazon button in Odoo
Sales.](../../../../_images/amazon-accounts-form-link-button.png)

Clicking that button redirects to either the Amazon login page, or directly to
the required consent page, if the user is already logged in to Amazon.

On the login page, log in to the desired Amazon seller account.

On the consent page, confirm that Amazon is allowed to give Odoo access to the
account and related data.

Upon confirmation, Amazon returns the user to Odoo, and the account has been
registered.

With the Amazon account successfully registered, the marketplaces available to
this specific account are synchronized with Odoo and listed under the
Marketplaces tab.

If desired, remove items from the list of synchronized marketplaces to disable
synchronization.

## Amazon orders in Odoo

When an Amazon order is synchronized, up to three line items are created on
the sales order in Odoo. Each one represents a product sold on Amazon: one for
the product that was sold on Amazon Marketplace, one for the shipping charges
(if any), and one for the gift wrapping charges (if any).

The selection of a database product for a sales order item is done by matching
its Internal Reference (a customizable product reference idenifier in Odoo,
like `FURN001`) with the Amazon _SKU_ for marketplace items, the Amazon
_Shipping Code_ for delivery charges, and the Amazon _Gift Wrapping_ code for
gift wrapping charges.

For marketplace products, pairings are saved as _Amazon Offers_ , which are
listed under the Offers smart button on the account form.

![The Amazon Offers smart button on the account form in Odoo
Sales.](../../../../_images/amazon-offers-button.png)

Offers are automatically created when the pairing is established, and they’re
used for subsequent orders to lookup SKUs. If no offer with a matching SKU is
found, the internal reference is used instead.

Tip

It’s possible to force the pairing of a marketplace item with a specific
product, by changing either the product or the SKU of an offer to ensure they
match. The offer can be manually created if it was not automatically done yet.

This is useful if the internal reference is not used as the SKU, or if the
product sells under different conditions.

If no database product with a matching internal reference is found for a given
Amazon SKU or gift wrapping code, then a default database product, _Amazon
Sale_ , is used. The same is done with the default product _Amazon Shipping_
if no database product is found for a given Amazon shipping code.

Note

To modify default products, activate the [developer
mode](../../../general/developer_mode.html#developer-mode), and navigate to
Sales app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings ‣ Connectors ‣ Amazon Sync ‣ Default
Products.

## Product tax configuration

To allow for tax reporting of Amazon sales with Odoo, the taxes applied to the
sales order items are those set on the product, or determined by the fiscal
position.

Make sure to have the correct taxes set on your products in Odoo, or have it
done by a fiscal position, to avoid discrepancies in the subtotals between
_Amazon Seller Central_ and Odoo.

Note

As Amazon does not necessarily apply the same taxes as those configured in
Odoo, it may happen that order totals differ by a few cents between Odoo and
_Amazon Seller Central_. Those differences can be resolved with a write-off
when reconciling the payments in Odoo.

## Add a new marketplace

All marketplaces are supported by the Amazon Connector. To add a new
marketplace, proceed as follows:

  1. Activate the [developer mode](../../../general/developer_mode.html#developer-mode).

  2. Go to Sales app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings ‣ Connectors ‣ Amazon Sync ‣ Amazon Marketplaces.

  3. Click New to create a new marketplace record.

  4. Enter the Marketplace ID in the API Idenifier field, and select the Amazon Region for your marketplace as described in the [Amazon Documentation for marketplace IDs and regions](https://developer-docs.amazon.com/sp-api/docs/marketplace-ids), and the Seller Central URL as described in the [Amazon Documentation for seller central URLs](https://developer-docs.amazon.com/sp-api/docs/seller-central-urls).

  5. Set the Name of the record to `Amazon.<country code>` to easily retrieve it (e.g. `Amazon.se`). The API Identifier, the Region and the Seller Central URL fields should respectively hold the _Marketplace ID_ , the selected Amazon region, and the _Seller Central URL_ values from the Amazon Documentation.

  6. Once the marketplace is saved, update the Amazon Account configuration by going to Sales app ‣ Configuration ‣ Settings ‣ Connectors ‣ Amazon Sync ‣ Amazon Accounts.

  7. Select the account on which to use the new marketplace, go to the Marketplaces tab, and click on Update available marketplaces. An animation should confirm the success of the operation. Newly added marketplaces are automatically added to the list of synchronized marketplaces. If the new marketplace is not added to the list, it means that it is either incompatible or unavailable for the seller account.

See also

  * [Amazon Connector features](features.html)

  * [Amazon order management](manage.html)

