# How to motivate and reward my salespeople?

Challenging your employees to reach specific targets with goals and rewards is
an excellent way to reinforce good habits and improve your salespeople
productivity. The Gamification module gives you simple and creative ways to
motivate and evaluate your employees with real-time recognition and badges
inspired by game mechanics.

## Configuration

Install the _Gamification_ module, or the _CRM gamification_ one, which adds
some useful data (goals and challenges) that can be used on _CRM/Sale_.

![View of the gamification module being installed in
Odoo](../../../../_images/gamification_module_install.png)

## Create a challenge

Now, create your first challenge by going to Settings ‣ Gamification Tools ‣
Challenges.

Note

As the gamification tool is a one-time technical setup, you need to activate
the technical features in order to access the configuration. To do so, go to
_Settings_ and _Activate the developer mode_.

![View if the gamification tools menu in Odoo
Settings](../../../../_images/gamification_tools_menu.png)

A challenge is a mission that you send to your sales team. It can include one
or several goals, set for a specific period of time. Configure your challenge
as follows:

  1. Assign the salespeople to be challenged;

  2. Assign a responsible;

  3. Set up the periodicity along with the start and the end date;

  4. Select your goals;

  5. Set up your rewards (badges).

Note

Badges are granted when a challenge is finished. This is either at the end of
a running period (eg: end of the month for a monthly challenge), at the end
date of a challenge (if no periodicity is set), or when the challenge is
manually closed.

In the example below, 2 employees are being challenged with a _Monthly Sales
Target_. The challenge is based on 2 goals: the total amount invoiced and
number of new leads generated. At the end of the month, the winner will be
granted with a badge.

![View of the challenge form and a challenge being created for Odoo
Sales](../../../../_images/challenges.png)

### Set up goals

The users can be evaluated using goals and numerical objectives to reach.

**Goals** are assigned through _challenges_ that evaluate (see image above)
and compare members of a team throughout time.

You can create a new goal on the fly from a _Challenge_ by clicking on _Add
new item_ , under _Goals_. Select the business object according to your
company’s needs. Examples: number of new leads, time to qualify a lead, total
amount invoiced in a specific week, month or any other time frame based on
your management preferences, etc.

![View of the goal definition form and a goal definition being created for
Odoo Sales](../../../../_images/goal_definitions.png)

Note

Goals may include your database setup as well (e.g. set your company data and
a timezone, create new users, etc.).

### Set up rewards

For non-numerical achievements, **Badges** can be granted to users. From a
simple thank you to an exceptional achievement, a badge is an easy way to
express gratitude to a user for their good work. To create and grant badges to
your employees based on their performance, go to Settings ‣ Gamification Tools
‣ Badges.

![View of the badges page in Odoo](../../../../_images/badges.png)

