# Portal access

Portal access is given to users who need the ability to view certain documents
or information within an Odoo database.

Some common use cases for providing portal access include allowing customers
to read/view any or all of the following in Odoo:

  * leads/opportunities

  * quotations/sales orders

  * purchase orders

  * invoices & bills

  * projects

  * tasks

  * timesheets

  * tickets

  * signatures

  * subscriptions

Note

Portal users only have read/view access, and will not be able to edit any
documents in the database.

## Provide portal access to customers

From the main Odoo dashboard, select the Contacts application. If the contact
is not yet created in the database, click on the Create button, enter the
details of the contact, and then click Save. Otherwise, choose an existing
contact, and then click on the Action drop-down menu located at the top-center
of the interface.

![Use the Contacts application to give portal access to
users.](../../../_images/grant-portal-access.png)

Then select Grant portal access. A pop-up window appears, listing three
fields:

  * Contact: the recorded name of the contact in the Odoo database

  * Email: the contact’s email address that they will use to log into the portal

  * In Portal: whether or not the user has portal access

To grant portal access, first enter the contact’s Email they will use to log
into the portal. Then, check the box under the In Portal column. Optionally,
add text to the invitation message the contact will receive. Then click Apply
to finish.

![An email address and corresponding checkbox for the contact need to be
filled in before sending a portal invitation.](../../../_images/add-contact-
to-portal.png)

An email will be sent to the specified email address, indicating that the
contact is now a portal user for that Odoo database.

Tip

To grant portal access to multiple users at once, navigate to a company
contact, then click Action ‣ Grant portal access to view a list of all of the
company’s related contacts. Check the box under the In Portal column for all
the contacts that need portal access, then click Apply.

Note

At any time, portal access can be revoked by navigating to the contact,
clicking Action ‣ Grant portal access, and then unselecting the checkbox under
the In Portal column and clicking Apply.

## Change portal username

There may be times when a portal user wants to change their user login. This
can be done by any user in the database with administrator access rights. The
following process outlines the necessary steps to change the portal user
login.

See also

[See the documentation on setting access rights](access_rights.html).

First, navigate to Settings app ‣ Users. Then, under Filters, select Portal
Users, or select Add Custom Filter and set the following configuration Groups
> contains > `portal`. After making this selection, search for (and open) the
portal user that needs to be edited.

Next, click Edit (if necessary), click into the Email Address field, and
proceed to make any necessary changes to this field. The Email Address field
is used to log into the Odoo portal.

Note

Changing the Email Address (or login) only changes the _username_ on the
customer’s portal login.

In order to change the contact email, this change needs to take place on the
contact template in the _Contacts_ app. Alternatively, the customer can change
their email directly from the portal, but the login **cannot** be changed. See
change customer info.

## Customer portal changes

There may be times when the customer would like to make changes to their
contact information, password/security, or payment information attached to the
portal account. This can be performed by the customer from their portal. The
following process is how a customer can change their contact information.

### Change customer info

First enter the username and password (login) into the database login page to
access the portal user account. A portal dashboard will appear upon
successfully logging in. Portal documents from the various installed Odoo
applications will appear with the number count of each.

See also

Portal access documentation.

Next, navigate to the upper-right corner of the portal, and click the Edit
button, next to the Details section. Then, change the pertinent information,
and click Confirm.

### Change password

First enter the username and password (login) into the database login page to
access the portal user account. A portal dashboard will appear upon
successfully logging in.

If the customer would like to change their password for portal access, click
on the Edit Security Settings link, below the Account Security section. Then,
make the necessary changes, by typing in the current Password, New Password,
and verify the new password. Lastly, click on Change Password to complete the
password change.

Note

If a customer would like to change the login, as documented above, contact the
Odoo database point-of-contact. See above documentation on changing the portal
username.

Note

Passwords for portal users and Odoo.com users remain separate, even if the
same email address is used.

### Add two-factor authentication

First enter the username and password (login) into the database login page to
access the portal user account. A portal dashboard will appear upon
successfully logging in.

If the customer would like to turn on two-factor authentication (2FA) for
portal access, click on the Edit Security Settings link, below the Account
Security section.

Click on Enable two-factor authentication to turn on 2FA. Confirm the current
portal password in the Password field. Then, click on Confirm Password. Next,
activate 2FA in a 2FA app (Google Authenticator, Authy, etc.), by scanning the
QR code or entering a Verification Code.

Finally, click Enable two-factor authentication to complete the setup.

### Change payment info

First enter the username and password (login) into the database login page to
access the portal user account. A portal dashboard will appear upon
successfully logging in.

If the customer would like to manage payment options, navigate to the Manage
payment methods in the menu on the right. Then, add the new payment
information, and select Add new card.

  *[2FA]: two-factor authentication

