# Expenses

Odoo **Expenses** streamlines the management of expenses. After an employee
submits their expenses in Odoo, the expenses are reviewed by management and
accounting teams. Once approved, payments can then be processed and disbursed
back to the employee for reimbursement(s).

See also

[Odoo Expenses: product page](https://www.odoo.com/app/expenses)

## Set expense categories

The first step to track expenses is to configure the different types of
expenses for the company (managed as _expense categories_ in Odoo). Each
category can be as specific or generalized as needed. Go to Expenses app ‚Ä£
Configuration ‚Ä£ Expense Categories to view the current expensable categories
in a default list view.

![Set expense costs on products.](../../_images/categories.png)

To create a new expense category, click New. A product form will appear, with
the description field labeled Product Name.

Note

Expense categories are managed like products in Odoo. The expense category
form follows the standard product form in Odoo, and the information entered is
similar. Expense products will be referred to as expense categories throughout
this document since the main menu refers to these as Expense Categories.

Only two fields are required, the Product Name and the Unit of Measure. Enter
the Product Name in the field, and select the Unit of Measure from the drop-
down menu (most products will be set to Units).

Tip

The _Sales_ app is where specification on the units of measure are created and
edited (e.g. units, miles, nights, etc.). Go to Sales app ‚Ä£ Configuration ‚Ä£
Settings and ensure `Units of Measure` is enabled in the `Product Catalog`
section. Click on the Units of Measure internal link to [view, create, and
edit the units of
measure](../inventory_and_mrp/inventory/product_management/product_replenishment/uom.html).

![Set expense costs on products.](../../_images/new-expense-product.png)

The Cost field on the product form is populated with a value of `0.00` by
default. When a specific expense should always be reimbursed for a particular
price, enter that amount in the Cost field. Otherwise, leave the Cost set to
`0.00`, and employees will report the actual cost when submitting an expense
report.

Note

The Cost field is always visible on the expense category form, but the Sales
Price field is _only_ visible if the Sales Price is selected under the Re-
Invoice Expenses section. Otherwise, the Sales Price field is hidden.

Example

Here are some examples for when to set a specific Cost on a product vs.
leaving the Cost at `0.00`:

  * **Meals** : Set the Cost to `0.00`. When an employee logs an expense for a meal, they enter the actual amount of the bill and will be reimbursed for that amount. An expense for a meal costing $95.23 would equal a reimbursement for $95.23.

  * **Mileage** : Set the Cost to `0.30`. When an employee logs an expense for ‚Äúmileage‚Äù, they enter the number of miles driven in the Quantity field, and are reimbursed 0.30 per mile they entered. An expense for 100 miles would equal a reimbursement for $30.00.

  * **Monthly Parking** : Set the Cost to `75.00`. When an employee logs an expense for ‚Äúmonthly parking‚Äù, the reimbursement would be for $75.00.

  * **Expenses** : Set the Cost to `0.00`. When an employee logs an expense that is not a meal, mileage, or monthly parking, they use the generic Expenses product. An expense for a laptop costing $350.00 would be logged as an Expenses product, and the reimbursement would be for $350.00.

Select an Expense Account if using the Odoo _Accounting_ app. It is
recommended to check with the accounting department to determine the correct
account to reference in this field as it will affect reports.

Set a tax on each product in the Vendor Taxes and Customer Taxes fields, if
applicable. It is considered good practice to use a tax that is configured
with [Tax Included in Price](accounting/taxes.html#taxes-included-in-price).
Taxes will be automatically configured if this is set.

## Record expenses

### Manually create a new expense

To record a new expense, begin in the main Expenses app dashboard, which
presents the default My Expenses view. This view can also be accessed from
Expenses app ‚Ä£ My Expenses ‚Ä£ My Expenses.

First, click New, and then fill out the various fields on the form.

  * Description: Enter a short description for the expense in the Description field. This should be short and informative, such as `lunch with client` or `hotel for conference`.

  * Category: Select the expense category from the drop-down menu that most closely corresponds to the expense. For example, an airplane ticket would be appropriate for an expense Category named Air Travel.

  * Total: Enter the total amount paid for the expense in one of two ways:

    1. If the expense is for one single item/expense, and the category selected was for a single item, enter the cost in the Total field (the Quantity field is hidden).

    2. If the expense is for multiples of the same item/expense with a fixed price, the Unit Price is displayed. Enter the quantity in the Quantity field, and the total cost is automatically updated with the correct total (the Unit Price x the Quantity = the total). Be advised, the word ‚Äútotal‚Äù does not appear, the total cost simply appears below the Quantity.

Example

For example, in the case of mileage driven, the Unit Price is populated as the
cost _per mile_. Set the Quantity to the _number of miles_ driven, and the
total is calculated.

  * Included Taxes: If taxes were configured on the expense category, the tax percentage and amount appear automatically after entering either the Total or the Quantity.

Note

When a tax is configured on an expense category, the Included Taxes value will
update in real time as the Total or Quantity is updated.

  * Employee: Using the drop-down menu, select the employee this expense is for.

  * Paid By: Click the radio button to indicate who paid for the expense and should be reimbursed. If the employee paid for the expense (and should be reimbursed) select Employee (to reimburse). If the company paid directly instead (e.g. if the company credit card was used to pay for the expense) select Company. Depending on the expense category selected, this field may not appear.

  * Bill Reference: If there is any reference text that should be included for the expense, enter it in this field.

  * Expense Date: Using the calendar module, enter the date the expense was incurred. Use the < (left) and > (right) arrows to navigate to the correct month, then click on the specific day to enter the selection.

  * Account: Select the expense account that this expense should be logged on from the drop-down menu.

  * Customer to Reinvoice: If the expense is something that should be paid for by a customer, select the SO and customer that will be invoiced for this expense from the drop-down menu. All sales orders in the drop-down menu list both the SO as well as the company the sales order is written for, but after the expense is saved, the customer name disappears and only the SO is visible on the expense.

Example

A customer wishes to have an on-site meeting for a custom garden (design and
installation) and agrees to pay for the expenses associated with it (such as
travel, hotel, meals, etc.). All expenses tied to that meeting would indicate
the sales order for the custom garden (which also references the customer) as
the Customer to Reinvoice.

  * Analytic Distribution: Select the account(s) the expense should be written against from the drop-down menu for either Projects, Departments, or both. Multiple accounts can be listed for each category if needed. Adjust the percentage for each analytic account by typing in the percentage value next to the account.

  * Company: If multiple companies are set up, select the company this expense should be filed for from the drop-down menu. The current company will automatically populate this field.

  * Notes‚Ä¶: If any notes are needed in order to clarify the expense, enter them in the notes field.

![A filled in expense form for a client lunch.](../../_images/expense-filled-
in.png)

#### Attach a receipt

After the expense is created, the next step is to attach a receipt. Click the
Attach Receipt button, and a file explorer appears. Navigate to the receipt to
be attached, and click Open. The new receipt is recorded in the chatter, and
the number of receipts will appear next to the üìé (paperclip) icon beneath the
expense form. More than one receipt can be attached to an individual expense,
as needed. The number of receipts attached to the expense will be noted on the
paperclip icon.

![Attach a receipt and it appears in the chatter.](../../_images/receipt-
icon.png)

### Create new expenses from a scanned receipt

Rather than manually inputting all of the information for an expense, expenses
can be created by scanning a PDF receipt.

First, in the main Expenses app dashboard view (this view can also be accessed
from Expenses app ‚Ä£ My Expenses ‚Ä£ My Expenses), click Scan, and a file
explorer pops up. Navigate to the receipt to be uploaded, click on it to
select it, and then click Open.

![Create an expense by scanning a receipt. Click Scan at the top of the
Expenses dashboard view.](../../_images/scan.png)

The receipt is scanned, and a new entry is created with today‚Äôs date as the
Expense Date, and any other fields it can populate based on the scanned data,
such as the total. Click on the new entry to open the individual expense form,
and make any changes needed. The scanned receipt appears in the chatter.

### Automatically create new expenses from an email

Instead of individually creating each expense in the _Expenses_ app, expenses
can be automatically created by sending an email to an email alias.

To do so, first, an email alias needs to be configured. Go to Expenses app ‚Ä£
Configuration ‚Ä£ Settings. Ensure Incoming Emails is enabled.

![Create the domain alias by clicking the link.](../../_images/email-
alias.png)

Note

If the domain alias needs to be set up, Setup your domain alias will appear
beneath the incoming emails check box instead of the email address field.
Refer to this documentation for setup instructions and more information:
[Domain names](../websites/website/configuration/domain_names.html). Once the
domain alias is configured, the email address field will be visible beneath
the incoming emails section.

Next, enter the email address to be used in the email field, and then click
Save. Now that the email address has been entered, emails can be sent to that
alias to create new expenses without having to be in the Odoo database.

To submit an expense via email, create a new email and enter the product‚Äôs
_internal reference_ code (if available) and the amount of the expense in the
email subject. Next, attach the receipt to the email. Odoo creates the expense
by taking the information in the email subject and combining it with the
receipt.

To check an expense categories internal reference, go to Expenses app ‚Ä£
Configuration ‚Ä£ Expense Categories. If an internal reference is listed on the
expense category, it is listed in the Internal Reference column.

![Internal reference numbers are listed in the main Expense Categories
view.](../../_images/ref.png)

To add an internal reference on an expense category, click on the category to
open the form. Enter the internal reference in the field. Beneath the Internal
Reference field, this sentence appears: Use this reference as a subject prefix
when submitting by email.

![Internal reference numbers are listed in the main Expense Products
view.](../../_images/mileage-internal-reference.png)

Note

For security purposes, only authenticated employee emails are accepted by Odoo
when creating an expense from an email. To confirm an authenticated employee
email address, go to the employee card in the Employees app, and refer to the
Work Email

![Create the domain alias by clicking the link.](../../_images/authenticated-
email-address.png)

Example

If submitting an expense via email for a $25.00 meal during a work trip, the
email subject would be `FOOD $25.00`.

Explanation:

  * The Internal Reference for the expense category `Meals` is `FOOD`

  * The Cost for the expense is `$25.00`

## Create an expense report

When expenses are ready to submit (such as at the end of a business trip, or
once a month), an _expense report_ needs to be created. Go to the main
Expenses app dashboard, which displays a default My Expenses view, or go to
Expenses app ‚Ä£ My Expenses ‚Ä£ My Expenses.

Expenses are color coded by status. Any expense with a status of To Report
(expenses that still need to be added to an expense report) the text appears
in blue. All other statuses (To Submit, Submitted, and Approved) the text
appears in black.

First, select each individual expense for the report by clicking the check box
next to each entry, or quickly select all the expenses in the list by clicking
the check box next to Expense Date.

Another way to quickly add all expenses that are not on an expense report is
to click Create Report without selecting any expenses, and Odoo will select
all expenses with a status of To Submit that are not already on a report.

![Select the expenses to submit, then create the
report.](../../_images/create-report.png)

Note

Any expense can be selected from the My Expenses list, regardless of status.
The Create Report button is visible as long as there is a minimum of 1 expense
with a status of To Report selected. When the Create Report button is clicked,
only expenses with a status of To Submit that are _not_ currently on another
expense report will appear in the newly created expense report.

Once the expenses have been selected, click the Create Report button. The new
report appears with all the expenses listed in the Expense tab. If there is a
receipt attached to an individual expense, a üìé (paperclip) icon appears next
to the Customer to Reinvoice and Analytic Distribution columns.

When the report is created, the date range for the expenses appears in the
Expense Report Summary field by default. It is recommended to edit this field
with a short summary for each report to help keep expenses organized. Enter a
short description for the expense report (such as `Client Trip NYC`, or
`Repairs for Company Car`) in the Expense Report Summary field. Next, select a
Manager from the drop-down menu to assign a manager to review the report. If
needed, the Journal can be changed. Use the drop-down menu to select a
different Journal.

![Enter a short description and select a manager for the
report.](../../_images/expense-report-summary.png)

If some expenses are not on the report that should be, they can still be
added. Click Add a line at the bottom of the Expense tab. A pop up appears
with all the available expenses that can be added to the report (with a status
of To Submit). Click the check box next to each expense to add, then click
Select. The items now appear on the report that was just created. If a new
expense needs to be added that does _not_ appear on the list, click New to
create a new expense and add it to the report.

![Add more expenses to the report before submitting.](../../_images/add-an-
expense-line.png)

Note

Expense reports can be created in one of three places:

  1. Go to the main Expenses app dashboard (also accessed by going to Expenses app ‚Ä£ My Expenses ‚Ä£ My Expenses)

  2. Go to Expenses app ‚Ä£ My Expenses ‚Ä£ My Reports

  3. Go to Expenses app ‚Ä£ Expense Reports

In any of these views, click New to create a new expense report.

### Submit an expense report

When an expense report is completed, the next step is to submit the report to
a manager for approval. Reports must be individually submitted, and cannot be
submitted in batches. Open the specific report from the list of expense
reports (if the report is not already open). To view all expense reports, go
to Expenses app ‚Ä£ My Expenses ‚Ä£ My Reports.

If the list is large, grouping the results by status may be helpful since only
reports that have a To Submit status need to be submitted, reports with an
Approved or Submitted status do not.

The To Submit expenses are easily identifiable not just from the To Submit
status, but the text appears in blue, while the other expenses text appears in
black.

![Submit the report to the manager.](../../_images/expense-status.png)

Note

The status of each report is shown in the Status column on the right. If the
Status column is not visible, click the Additional Options (two dots) icon at
the end of the row, and enable Status.

Click on a report to open it, then click Submit To Manager. After submitting a
report, the next step is to wait for the manager to approve it.

Important

The Approve expenses, Post expenses in accounting, and Reimburse employees
sections are **only** for users with the _necessary rights_.

## Approve expenses

In Odoo, not just anyone can approve expense reports‚Äî only users with the
necessary rights (or permissions) can. This means that a user must have at
least _Team Approver_ rights for the _Expenses_ app. Employees with the
necessary rights can review expense reports, approve or reject them, and
provide feedback thanks to the integrated communication tool.

To see who has rights to approve, go to the main Settings app and click on
Manage Users.

Note

If the _Settings_ app is not available, then certain rights are not set on the
account. Check the Access Rights tab of a user‚Äôs card in the Settings app. the
Administration section (bottom right of the Access Rights tab) is set to one
of three options:

  * None (blank): The user cannot access the _Settings_ app at all.

  * Access Rights: The user can only view the User‚Äôs & Companies section of the _Settings_ app.

  * Settings: The user has access to the entire _Settings_ app with no restrictions.

Please refer to [this document](../general/users.html) to learn more about
managing users and their access rights.

Click on an individual to view their card, which displays the Access Rights
tab in the default view. Scroll down to the Human Resources section. Under
Expenses, there are four options:

  * None (blank): A blank field means the user has no rights to view or approve expense reports, and can only view their own.

  * Team Approver: The user can only view and approve expense reports for their own specific team.

  * All Approver: The user can view and approve any expense report.

  * Administrator: The user can view and approve any expense report, as well as access the reporting and configuration menus in the _Expenses_ app.

Users who are able to approve expense reports (typically managers) can easily
view all expense reports they have access rights to. Go to Expenses app ‚Ä£
Expense Reports, and a list appears with all expense reports that have a
status of either To Submit, Submitted, Approved, Posted, or Done. Expense
reports with a status of Refused are hidden in the default view.

![Reports to validate are found on the Reports to Approve
page.](../../_images/expense-reports-list.png)

When viewing expense reports, there is a panel of filters that can be enabled
or disabled on the left side. The three categories that filters can be applied
on are Status, Employee, and Company. To view only expense reports with a
particular status, enable the specific status filter to display the expense
reports with only that status. Disable the specific status filter to hide the
reports with that status. To view expense reports for a particular employee
and/or company, enable the specific employee name filter and/or company filter
in the Employee and Company sections.

Reports can be approved in two ways (individually or several at once) and
refused only one way. To approve multiple expense reports at once, remain in
the list view. First, select the reports to approve by clicking the check box
next to each report, or click the box next to Employee to select all the
reports in the list.

Important

Only reports with a status of Submitted can be approved. It is recommended to
only display the submitted reports by adjusting the status filter on the left
side by only having the Submitted filter enabled.

If a report is selected that is unable to be approved, the Approve Report
button **will not appear** , indicating there is a problem with the selected
report(s).

Next, click the Approve Report button.

![Approve multiple reports by clicking the checkboxes next to each
report.](../../_images/approve-report.png)

To approve an individual report, click on a report to go to a detailed view of
that report. In this view, several options are presented: Approve, Report in
Next Payslip, Refuse, or Reset to draft. Click Approve to approve the report.

If Refuse is clicked, a pop-up window appears. Enter a brief explanation for
the refusal in the Reason to Refuse Expense field, and then click Refuse.

![Send messages in the chatter.](../../_images/refuse-expense.png)

Team managers can easily view all the expense reports for their team members.
While in the Expense Reports view, click the drop-down arrow in the right-side
of the search box, and click on My Team in the Filters section. This presents
all the reports for the manager‚Äôs team.

![Select the My Team filter.](../../_images/my-team-filter.png)

Tip

If more information is needed, such as a missing receipt, communication is
easy from the chatter. In an individual report, simply click Send message to
open the message text box. Type in a message, tagging the proper person (if
needed), and post it to the chatter by clicking Send. The message is posted in
the chatter, and the person tagged will be notified via email of the message,
as well as any followers.

The only people that can be tagged in a message are _followers_. To see who is
a follower, click on the üë§ (person) icon to display the followers of the
expense.

![Send messages in the chatter.](../../_images/chatter.png)

## Post expenses in accounting

Once an expense report is approved, the next step is to post the report to the
accounting journal. To view all expense reports, go to Expenses app ‚Ä£ Expense
Reports. To view only the expense reports that have been approved and need to
be posted, adjust the filters on the left side so that only the Approved
status is enabled.

![View reports to post by clicking on expense reports, then reports to
post.](../../_images/post-reports.png)

Just like approvals, expense reports can be posted in two ways (individually
or several at once). To post multiple expense reports at once, remain in the
list view. First, select the reports to post by clicking the check box next to
each report, or click the box next to Employee to select all the reports in
the list. Next, click Post Entries.

![Post multiple reports at a time from the Expense Reports view, with the
Approved filter.](../../_images/post-entries.png)

To post an individual report, click on a report to go to the detailed view of
that report. In this view, several options are presented: Post Journal
Entries, Report In Next Payslip, Refuse, or Reset to Draft. Click Post Journal
Entries to post the report.

If Refuse is clicked, a pop-up window appears. Enter a brief explanation for
the refusal in the Reason to Refuse Expense field, and then click Refuse.
Refused reports can be viewed by going to Expenses app ‚Ä£ Expense Reports, then
adjusting the filters on the left so that only Refused is selected. This will
only show the refused expense reports.

Important

To post expense reports to an accounting journal, the user must have following
access rights:

  * Accounting: Accountant or Adviser

  * Expenses: Manager

## Reimburse employees

After an expense report is posted to an accounting journal, the next step is
to reimburse the employee. To view all the expense reports to pay, go to
Expenses app ‚Ä£ Expense Reports ‚Ä£ Reports To Pay.

![View reports to pay by clicking on expense reports, then reports to
pay.](../../_images/reports-to-pay.png)

Just like approvals and posting, expense reports can be paid in two ways
(individually or several at once). To pay multiple expense reports at once,
remain in the list view. First, select the reports to pay by clicking the
check box next to each report, or click the box next to Employee to select all
the reports in the list. Next, click Register Payment.

![Post multiple reports by selecting them, clicking the gear, and then post
the entries.](../../_images/register-payment1.png)

To pay an individual report, click on a report to go to a detailed view of
that report. Click Register Payment to pay the employee.

A Register Payment pop-up appears, and the Journal, Payment Method, and
Payment Date can be modified, if needed. When the selections are correct,
click Create Payment to send the payment to the employee.

To pay an individual report, click on a report in the list view to go to a
detailed view of that report. Click Register Payment to pay the employee. A
Register Payment pop-up appears, but when paying an individual expense report
instead of several at once, more options appear in the pop-up. In addition to
the Journal, Payment Method, and Payment Date fields, a Recipient Bank
Account, Amount, and Memo field appear. Select the employee‚Äôs bank account
from the drop-down menu to directly deposit the payment to their account. When
all other selections are correct, click Create Payment to send the payment to
the employee.

![Different options appear when registering an individual expense report
versus multiple expense reports at once.](../../_images/two-payment-posting-
options.png)

## Re-invoice expenses to customers

If expenses are tracked on customer projects, expenses can be automatically
charged back to the customer. This is done by creating an expense, referencing
the SO the expense should be added to, and then creating the expense report.
Next, managers approve the expense report, and the accounting department posts
the journal entries. Finally, once the expense report is posted to a journal,
the expense(s) appears on the SO that was referenced. The sales order can then
be invoiced, thus invoicing the customer for the expense.

### Setup

First, specify the invoicing policy for each expense category. Go to Expenses
app ‚Ä£ Configuration ‚Ä£ Expense Categories. Click on the expense category to
open the expense category form. Under the Invoicing section, click the radio
button next to the desired selection for Re-Invoicing Expenses. Options are
None, At cost, and Sales price.

Re-Invoicing Expenses:

  * None: Expense category will not be re-invoiced.

  * At cost: Expense category will invoice expenses at their real cost.

  * At sales price: Expense category will invoice the price set on the sale order.

### Create an expense

First, when creating a new expense, the correct information needs to be
entered in order to re-invoice a customer. Select the _sales order_ the
expense will appear on in the Customer to Reinvoice section, from the drop-
down menu. Next, select the Analytic Account the expense will be posted to.
After the expense(s) are created, the expense report needs to be created and
submitted as usual.

![Ensure the customer to be invoiced is called out on the
expense.](../../_images/reinvoice-expense.png)

Important

Selecting a Customer to Reinvoice when creating an expense is critical, since
this is what causes the expenses to be automatically invoiced after an expense
report is approved.

The Customer to Reinvoice field can be modified _until an expense report is_
**approved** , then the field is no longer able to be modified.

### Validate and post expenses

Only employees with permissions (typically managers or supervisors) can
approve expenses. Before approving an expense report, ensure the Analytic
Distribution is set on every expense line of a report. If an Analytic
Distribution is missing, assign the correct account(s) from the drop-down
menu, and then click Approve or Refuse.

The accounting department is typically responsible for posting journal
entries. Once an expense report is approved, it can then be posted. The SO is
**only** updated _after the journal entries are posted_. One the journal
entries are posted, the expenses now appear on the referenced SO.

### Invoice expenses

Once the SO has been updated, it is time to invoice the customer. After the
expense report has been approved and the journal entries have been posted,
click the Sales Orders smart button to open the SO. The expenses to be re-
invoiced are now on the SO.

![After the expense report is posted to the journal entry, the sales order can
be called up by clicking on the sales order number.](../../_images/sales-
order.png)

Note

More than one SO can be referenced on an expense report. If more than one SO
is referenced, the Sales Orders smart button will list the number of SO‚Äôs. If
multiple SO‚Äôs are listed, the Sales Orders smart button opens a list view of
all the SO‚Äôs on the expense report. Click on a SO to open the individual SO.

The expenses are listed in the SO Order Lines tab.

![See the expenses listed on the sales order after clicking into
it.](../../_images/so-details.png)

Next, click Create Invoice, and select if the invoice is for a Regular
invoice, a Down payment (percentage), or a Down payment (fixed amount) by
clicking the radio button next to it. Then, click Create Invoice. The customer
has now been invoiced for the expenses.

  *[SO]: Sales Order

