# Utiliser les services VoIP dans Odoo avec OnSIP

Important

OnSIP VoIP services are only available in the **United States** (US). OnSIP
VoIP services are widely available in the lower-48, contiguous United States.
In Alaska or Hawaii, charges for service can be higher.

Additionally, a US billing address, and US credit card are required to use the
service.

Before setting up an account with OnSIP, the business will need to make sure
the business telephone numbers are portable to OnSIP.

OnSIP makes every attempt to work with all telephone service providers.
However, certain local or regional guidelines may preclude the company‚Äôs
current provider from releasing the number.

## Introduction

Odoo _VoIP_ can be set up to work together with [OnSIP (Odoo Landing
Page)](https://info.onsip.com/odoo/). OnSIP is a VoIP provider. An account is
needed with OnSIP in order to use this service.

Before setting up an account with OnSIP, make sure the company‚Äôs home area,
and the areas that will be called, are covered by OnSIP services.

After opening an OnSIP account, follow the configuration procedure below to
configure it on an Odoo database.

## Configuration

To configure the Odoo database to connect to OnSIP services, first navigate to
the Apps application from the main Odoo dashboard. Then, remove the default
`Apps` filter from the Search‚Ä¶ bar, and search for `VoIP OnSIP`.

Next, install the VOIP OnSIP module.

![View of OnSIP app in the app search results.](../../../_images/install-
onsip.png)

### Odoo VoIP setting

After installing the _VOIP OnSIP_ module, go to the Settings app, scroll down
to the Integrations section, and locate the Asterisk (VoIP) fields. Then,
proceed to fill in those three fields with the following information:

  * OnSIP Domain: the domain that was assigned when creating an account on [OnSIP](https://www.onsip.com/).

  * WebSocket: `wss://edge.sip.onsip.com`

  * VoIP Environment: Production

![VoIP configuration settings in Odoo Settings
app.](../../../_images/asterisk-setting.png)

Astuce

To access the OnSIP domain, navigate to [OnSIP](https://www.onsip.com/) and
log in. Then, click the Administrators link in the top-right of the page.

Next, in the left menu, click Users, and then select any user. By default, the
selected user opens on the User Info tab.

Click on the Phone Settings tab to reveal OnSIP configuration credentials
(first column).

![Domain setting revealed \(highlighted\) on administrative panel of OnSIP
management console.](../../../_images/domain-setting.png)

### Odoo user setting

Next, the user needs to be set up in Odoo. Every user associated with an OnSIP
user **must** also be configured in the Odoo user‚Äôs settings/preferences.

To do that, navigate to Settings app ‚Ä£ Manage Users ‚Ä£ Select the User.

On the user form, click Edit to configure the user‚Äôs OnSIP account. Then,
click the Preferences tab, and scroll to the VoIP section.

In this section, fill in the fields with OnSIP credentials.

Fill in the following fields with the associated credentials listed below:

  * VoIP Username / Extension Number = OnSIP Username

  * OnSIP Auth Username = OnSIP Auth Username

  * VoIP secret = OnSIP SIP Password

  * External device number = OnSIP Ext. (extension without the `x`)

![OnSIP user credentials with username, auth username, SIP password, and
extension highlighted.](../../../_images/onsip-creds.png)

Astuce

The OnSIP extension can be found in the _User_ banner line above the tabs.

When these steps are complete, navigate away from the user form in Odoo to
save the configurations.

Once saved, Odoo users can make phone calls by clicking the ‚òéÔ∏è (phone) icon in
the top-right corner of Odoo.

Pour plus d'infos

Additional setup and troubleshooting steps can be found on [OnSIP‚Äôs knowledge
base](https://support.onsip.com/hc/en-us).

### Incoming calls

The Odoo database also receives incoming calls that produce pop-up windows in
Odoo. When those call pop-up windows appear, click the green üìû (phone) icon to
answer the call.

To ignore the call, click the red üìû (phone) icon.

![Incoming call shown in the Odoo VoIP widget.](../../../_images/incoming-
call.png)

Pour plus d'infos

[VoIP widget](voip_widget.html)

### Aide au d√©pannage

#### Missing parameters

If a _Missing Parameters_ message appears in the Odoo widget, make sure to
refresh the Odoo browser window (or tab), and try again.

![Missing parameter message in the Odoo VoIP
widget.](../../../_images/onsip04.png)

#### Incorrect number

If an _Incorrect Number_ message appears in the Odoo widget, make sure to use
the international format for the number. This means leading with the
international country code.

A country code is a locator code that allows access to the desired country‚Äôs
phone system. The country code is dialed first, prior to the target number.
Each country in the world has its own specific country code.

For example, `16505555555` (where `1` is the international prefix for the
United States).

![Incorrect number message populated in the Odoo VoIP
widget.](../../../_images/onsip05.png)

Pour plus d'infos

For a list of comprehensive country codes, visit: <https://countrycode.org>.

## OnSIP on mobile phone

In order to make and receive phone calls when the user is not in front of Odoo
on their computer, a softphone app on a mobile phone can be used in parallel
with Odoo _VoIP_.

This is useful for convenient, on-the-go calls, and to make sure incoming
calls are heard. Any SIP softphone will work.

Pour plus d'infos

  * [Devices and integrations](devices_integrations.html)

  * [OnSIP App Download](https://www.onsip.com/app/download)

  *[VoIP]: voice over internet protocol
  *[US]: United States

