# Salt Edge

**Salt Edge** is a third-party provider that aggregates banking information
from your bank accounts. It supports ~5000 institutions in more than 50
countries.

![Salt Edge Logo](../../../../../_images/saltedge-logo.png)

Odoo can synchronize directly with your bank to get all bank statements
imported automatically into your database.

See also

  * [Bank synchronization](../bank_synchronization.html)

  * [Transactions](../transactions.html)

## Configuration

### Link your bank accounts with Odoo

  1. Start synchronization by clicking on Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Add a Bank Account.

  2. Select the institution you want to synchronize. You can see if Salt Edge is the third party provider of the institution by selecting it.

  3. After giving your phone number, you are asked for an email address. This email address is used to create your Salt Edge account. Please make sure you enter a valid email address, as otherwise, you will not be able to access your Salt Edge account.

![Email address to provide to Salt Edge for the creation of your
account.](../../../../../_images/saltedge-contact-email.png)

  4. After entering your email address, you are redirected to Salt Edge to continue the synchronization process.

![Salt Edge Login page.](../../../../../_images/saltedge-login-page.png)

  5. Make sure you give your consent by checking the consent checkbox.

![Salt Edge give consent page.](../../../../../_images/saltedge-give-
consent.png)

  6. Complete the synchronization by following the steps.

### Update your credentials

You might have to update your Salt Edge credentials or modify the
synchronization settings.

To do so, go to Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Online Synchronization and select
the institution you want to update credentials. Click on the _Update
Credentials_ button to start the flow and follow the steps.

Don’t forget to check the consent checkbox. Otherwise, Odoo may not be able to
access your information.

### Fetch new accounts

You might want to add new online accounts to your connection.

To do so, go to Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣ Online Synchronization and select
the institution to fetch the new accounts. Click on the _Fetch Accounts_
button to start the flow and follow the steps.

Don’t forget to check the consent checkbox. Otherwise, Odoo may not be able to
access your information.

## FAQ

### I have an error when I try to delete my synchronization within Odoo

Odoo can’t permanently delete the connection you have created with the banking
institution. However, it can revoke the consent you gave so that Odoo won’t be
able to access your account anymore. The error you are seeing is probably a
message telling you that the consent was revoked, but the record could not be
deleted as it still exists within Salt edge. If you want to remove the
connection completely, please connect to your [Salt Edge
account](https://www.saltedge.com/dashboard) and manually delete your
synchronization. Once this is done, you can go back to Odoo to delete the
record.

### I have an error saying that I have already synchronized this account

You have probably already synchronized your bank account with Salt Edge,
please check on your [dashboard](https://www.saltedge.com/dashboard) that you
don’t already have a connection with the same credentials.

In case you already have a synchronization with the same credentials present
on your Salt Edge dashboard and this synchronization has not been created with
Odoo, please delete it and create it from your Odoo database.

In case you already have a connection with the same credentials present on
your Salt Edge dashboard and this synchronization was created with Odoo, you
will normally be able to find it by going to Accounting ‣ Configuration ‣
Online Synchronization. Please make sure to do an _Update Credentials_ to
reactivate the connection.

